For about 20 years, the South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) has not been interested in what you do with foreign investment money that you transfer from South Africa.This resulted in people being able to sell foreign assets and acquire other assets offshore without restriction. Now the approach seems to be that not only were there restrictions, but if there is any doubt, you must submit an exchange control Special Voluntary Disclosure Programme (SVDP) application.The Sarb approach to exchange control since at least 1985 has been If there is any doubt, apply for a directive . However, submitting an SVDP application is an admission of guilt. Therefore, in the absence of evidence of a contravention, the correct approach (to the SVDP) should be that if there is any doubt, you should not rush in with such a submission. After all, you&#8217;re deemed innocent until proven guilty.If you still can&#8217;t get absolute clarity and elect not to submit an application, then consider obtaining good advice in writing and making sure your decision can be justified as being reasonable. Advice given may not ultimately be deemed to be correct in 100% of cases but at least you will be able to demonstrate both due diligence and that professional advice was sought. That will go a long way.I have it on good authority that there was disagreement among Treasury officials about the fact that this SVDP is even being offered. In principle, this SVDP is a good idea. In practice, confusion and difficulty reign. Worse still, I believe the tax situation is infinitely more complicated and confusing.Humour me a little. The first amnesty was in 2003. It had hardly commenced before Exchange Control Circular D405, covering a myriad of topics, had to be issued (and then amended just over two months later). So there were two processes.In 2010, we had the Voluntary Disclosure Programme (no longer an amnesty). It incorporated these two processes but little else was changed. The 2016 SVDP is little other than a re-hash of the 2010 process. Remember that shiny new car that you bought in 2003? No matter how well you looked after it, it will by now be showing its age. The 2016 SVDP is no different. It is a blunt instrument when what is needed now is a scalpel.I, like many in my position, have been addressing queries to the SVDP Unit. Some answers have been unsatisfactory &#8211; to the point that I believe there is a lack of legal justification in the replies.The SVDP could be a win-win situation, but we need a gentler touch. Treasury and the Sarb need to soften their approach (and while they&#8217;re at it re-evaluate why we still have some very bureaucratic and antiquated policies). After all, it&#8217;s been over 30 years since (Apartheid Prime Minister) PW Botha&#8217;s Rubicon speech that resulted in a massive financial crisis and a rush to (try to) export capital. Today huge capital outflows are allowed by private individuals, corporate clients and the investment industry. Why is the red tape of the 80s and 90s still around?Validity of policy prior to clarification or changesMost bank exchange control staff are not legal experts. Luckily the reality on the ground was that the Sarb directives to the authorised dealer banks (the Exchange Control Rulings) were the go-to document. Not a bad thing &#8211; the regulations were written in 1961 and pretty much restrict everything as a point of departure. There s not much guidance there on how to handle routine transactions, offshore inheritances and foreign investments. The banks were however, expressly told that those directives were for their use and were not to be made available to the public in their entirety (but extracts could be).The Sarb has very recently changed these directives to the banks. Some significant clarifications have now crept in, but I cannot see that the July 2016 changes can be deemed to be retrospective. The Sarb may argue to the contrary, but is that fair?Notable too is that the directives are now on the Sarb website for general public access. This may have been done to counteract arguments along the lines of how were we to know? .Particularly hot topics of this SVDP that really need a clearer directive or fresh approach are:1.Being a beneficiary of an offshore trust I ve been unable to get a simple yes or no answer to the question If you re the beneficiary or potential beneficiary of an offshore trust that you did not create or fund in any way, do you need to declare anything? . The response at times has been it would be best . This I find ludicrous. You either absolutely have to or you don&#8217;t. Huge fines are payable. On a matter as highly regulated as this SVDP there shouldn&#8217;t be such ambiguity. We know Sarb means what it says but it needs to clearly say what it means. If common sense were to rule, the answer should be no . However, if the Sarb and SVDP Unit feel so strongly to the contrary and you have an offshore trust, then might you want to add the names of Sarb, the South African Revenue Service and Treasury officials (as well as your least favourite politicians) as potential beneficiaries and make this fact public. Or declare it in your SVDP application. They&#8217;ll all have to rush off and make SVDP declarations about their offshore assets but your trustees will never have to actually award them anything.2.Dead or alive? The circular makes provision for declarations by deceased estates. No clarity is provided on what the position is if the estate has been wound up. Common sense dictates that it would be ridiculous to start expecting executors to even think about this, but common sense doesn&#8217;t always apply when it comes to exchange control enforcement. What other legislation tries to punish children for their father&#8217;s sins? Even for estates not currently finalised, is the Sarb stating that every executor now has to check the exchange control legitimacy of offshore assets as part of their routine work? What if the deceased did everything legally but that can&#8217;t be proven? Is the onus on the executors to prove the innocence of the deceased as opposed to the State proving their guilt?3.Loop structures This is a particularly nasty prohibition. Unlike foreign assets where you can elect to keep them offshore and pay a higher penalty, you have no choice but to unwind the structure here. Why the continued fascination on this topic coupled with such a hard line approach? When you push Sarb on this topic you&#8217;ll be told it&#8217;s a Treasury policy. For example, you have a legal 1% interest in a foreign company which in turn subsequently acquired a 10% interest in a South African company. You had no say in the decision by the foreign company to invest in SA after you bought your 1% in the foreign company (or you were outvoted). What&#8217;s the official view? You&#8217;re guilty of trying to export capital from SA. 4.Export of intellectual property It may also be a good idea to find out what Sarb&#8217;s directives on some of these hot topics were ten and 20 years ago. What I term exchange control creep , has become pervasive over time. Directives specifically mentioning the externalisation of IP were only incorporated in the Exchange Control Rulings somewhere between 2002 and 2005 &#8211; that would be those directives that weren&#8217;t to be made available to the public. In addition, the amendment to include IP in the definition of capital was only incorporated in the Exchange Control Regulations on June 8 2012 (Government Gazette Notice 35430). This became necessary after the Oilwell case SCA judgement of March 18 2011. I&#8217;m not a lawyer but this seems to be a strong legal position that any IP externalised in any way before June 8 2012 was legal. My proposalsTreasury should urgently consider granting the following blanket exemptions here to remove the nuisance value from this SVDP:Treasury and the Sarb seem to have the view that we&#8217;ve got you by the short and curlies so swallow the bitter medicine now or face worse consequences later. Is this a flexing of muscles as a result of winning the Shuttleworth case?If so, is this approach really in South Africa&#8217;s best interests? The wealthy usually have options, despite what Treasury and Sarb may think. Someone with R50 million in SA assets, R50 million in clean offshore assets and R50 million in undeclared offshore assets is most almost certainly weighing up the costs of relocating and becoming tax non-resident elsewhere, instead of paying a R5 million exchange control penalty (and more for undeclared income).Do we really want more business owners and entrepreneurs leaving for Cyprus, Mauritius, New Zealand or the UK?Instead of focusing on a windfall of additional tax over the next year, Treasury needs to rather reap the longer benefits of ongoing tax over the next 20 years. The current approach is short-sighted and will increase our brain-drain. This will negatively impact our economy, employment and investment at a time when investment is needed more than ever.*Michael Heath owns specialist exchange control service XConsult