Despite a hefty knock to the market value of two of its proprietary investments, small cap financial services group Peregrine Holdings produced another set of solid results for the six months to September 30 2016. The drop of around R70 million in the value of group holdings was a significant drag on the income statement, yet Peregrine&#8217;s basic profit attributable to shareholders was still up 12% for the period. If you had to strip out the effects of those two, which I concede is a bit kind to us, our earnings would have been up north of 30%, Peregrine CEO Jonathan Hertz told Moneyweb. And from my perspective I&#8217;m more interested in how my businesses are performing. A knock in net asset value doesn&#8217;t bother me as much. Peregrine grew normalised headline earnings by 4% to R255 million, up from R246 million in the same period last year. Normalised headline earnings per share showed a 3% increase from 115.4 cents to 118.5 cents per share.The company is also starting to see significant benefit from increased scale. While group operating revenue was 5% higher at R1.15 billion, profit for the period was 17% up. Our franchises are much bigger businesses, and so operational gearing is aiding us, Hertz said. Even in segments where performance fees have been much lower, our earnings have kept growing through operational gearing and improved margins. He pointed out that the group&#8217;s wealth and asset management businesses have nearly tripled their assets under management and advice in the last four years, and this has had obvious benefits. What you get from a business like this is you don&#8217;t need three times the staff to handle three times the money, so you get operational gearing coming through, Hertz explained. And similarly with Peregrine Securities, which has become the second largest broker on the JSE by value, volume, and number of trades, we are seeing that gearing going straight through to the bottom line. This increased scale has also led to a notable increase in annuity income for Peregrine. Across all of our businesses, around two thirds of what we earn is pure annuity income, said Hertz. If you just look at Peregrine Capital and the asset management segment, management fees were R50 million, compared to R33 million in the comparable period. This creates a great deal more stability for shareholders. I think the business is more resilient than it&#8217;s ever been, Hertz argued. Shareholders are going to get consistency of earnings rather than the big swings that might have been the order of the day ten years ago. Peregrine is also focused on increasing the contribution from offshore earnings. Hertz believes this is a critical growth area for the group as a whole. Our drive is to create offshore subsidiaries and offshore entities, which we think is a necessity for a financial services business, Hertz said. You have to be able to offer solutions offshore, because high net worth individuals in South Africa, notwithstanding the recent rally in the rand, are more concerned than ever about diversifying themselves away and getting money into developed markets and hard currencies. Hertz said that Peregrine has set a target of generating 50% of its earnings outside of South Africa. This number is currently around 35%. This isn&#8217;t at the expense of our local businesses, which will continue to grow, he says. We just expect that a bigger chunk will come from offshore in the future. 