In the 18 months to June 2016, MTN has invested R16 billion on its network in South Africa. Nearly a third of this R4.55 billion was spent on adding 1300 new physical sites to its footprint. This addition translates into an increase of more than 10% (its overall base was hovering at somewhere around 8000 sites). It has had to spend, as it s been playing a game of catch-up with Vodacom for the past two years in an effort to remedy years of underinvestment.Apart from the 1300 new sites added, it has also provisioned 2400 3G sites and 4000 LTE sites in the year-and-a-half. Across the 18 months (call it 16, given the December/January break), this equates to a run-rate of nearly 100 new sites, 150 3G ones and 250 LTE/4G sites per month!This detail was disclosed in a presentation to UBS s recent TMT conference by MTN Group Executive: Chief Technology and Information Systems, Babak Fouladi who is temporarily filling the function of CTO in the South African unit (a role that has been an almost perennial problem for the operator).Source: MTNIt is using 900MHz spectrum for 3G for greater coverage , on top of the 2100Mhz (2.1Ghz) bands it already uses.Despite this rate of investment, it still trails Vodacom when it comes to 4G coverage. Vodacom, in its interim results presentation to end-September, says its 4G data coverage (measured against population) is 69% (from 47% a year prior), with MTN at 55% (Cell C and Telkom both sit at the 28% level).The upgrade from 3G to 4G translates into an obvious uplift in usage and paired with that, average revenue per user. Vodacom puts this at somewhere around 24% a meaningful number. This investment in its LTE network which has literally quadrupled in size in less than two years has translated into average data throughput speeds of up to 11-12 Mbps .The focus, according to a TechCentral interview with MTN South Africa CEO Mteto Nyati, has been largely on eight big cities, including Johannesburg, Pretoria, Cape Town and Durban, which generate 70% of its revenue and where most of its high-value customers live .Beyond its mobile network, MTN has added 1200 fibre-to-the-home connections in the 18 months. That gives some idea of how small this business is, in comparison to the mobile one (and to Telkom s DSL base of over 1 million lines).MTN customers, particularly those in the metro areas, will have noticed the network improvements. By its measures, it has seen a more than 1 percentage point increase in network availability , a roughly 50 basis point improvement in call setup success rate and a decline in the percentage of dropped calls because of the network.Source: MTNIn the presentation, it cites MyBroadband s speed test results which show it has a healthy lead in the market. There s no breakdown of methodology, but the high overall average suggests a significant number of tests run on the MTN network which would skew that figure upward. Vodacom, in its interim results presentation, points to a benchmarking exercise from Atlo which shows (not surprisingly) that it performs better than its rivals.Source: MyBroadband&nbsp;Source: VodacomRegardless of who s in front, consumers win. Network speeds have (generally) been improving and data prices are coming down (more on this, soon). But there are limits to what can be achieved without additional spectrum.MTN South Africa has authorised R11.28 billion in capex in SA for the whole of 2016, which means there s another R6.5 billion being spent in the second half. In 2017, it s certainly not slowing down! According to Fouladi, 1450 new sites are planned for next year, with the LTE rollout being extended to the rest of the country. The aim is also to have the network ready for 2.6Ghz (2600Mhz) spectrum, which of course remains to be allocated by the regulator &nbsp;* Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at [email&#160;protected]* He owns shares in Vodacom, first purchased in June 2013.