Alexander Forbes is to pursue a refreshed strategy in a bid to realise its upside potential and address the underperformance of its share price relative to its peers. When you look at our peer group, our share price is trading at about a 15% to 20% discount to where it needs to be and it has actually lagged our peer group by 10% to 15%, said Andrew Darfoor, chief executive of the financial services group.He said the group listed with a share price of R7.50 in 2014, which has since fallen as the group hasn t been strong to execute its plans. We ve paid out R880 million in dividends in the last two years, we ve grown normalised operating profit by 15% in two years. That s all good but has it translated into share price [growth]? No, because we haven t addressed margin compression, we haven t addressed the high expense base and we haven t shown top line growth, he said. Darfoor, who took the helm of the 81 year old group in September, told Moneyweb that he wants to create a structure that will allow the group to prioritise and execute its plans.He said group s strong balance sheet with relatively low levels of leverage, and strong cash conversion such that it is able to pay a progressive dividend, stand it in good stead as it shifts from a holding company structure to a more integrated business model.The shift will involve collaboration between the constituent divisions of the group s institutional and retail businesses.In a bid to drive growth, it will also help employers, its institutional clients, to help their employees by offering a range of retail solutions such as life and car insurance. Despite having a 98.8% stickiness, or ability to retain its corporate clients, the group has converted less than 5% of that one million strong client base to retail customers. Darfoor said the response to the group s financial wellness days, in which it highlights its product offering to corporates, has been positive and it plans to host at least 50 more sessions by April. To address margin compression, the group will focus on boosting revenue by promoting client stickiness, while further optimising its cost base. We believe that we can have much stronger negotiation power with fund managers. We manage R350 billion of assets, that s say $25 billion. Our partner Mercer manages $160 billion, they have much stronger purchasing power. If we put the assets together and we go to say a BlackRock or a Templeton, we can get much better discounts. Just imagine if we can save 1 basis point off R350 billion, that R35 million off costs, Darfoor said. The group is targeting savings of between R250 million to R300 million by 2020. It has already saved R75 million over the six months ended September 30 2016, up from the R65 million it saved during the previous financial year. Alexander Forbes, which operates in six African countries outside of South Africa, is also seeking opportunities in the likes of Ghana, Morocco and Mauritius. It is also in the advanced stages of negotiations to sell non-core assets outside of Africa.Darfoor said it is likely to close an empowerment deal in which African Rainbow Capital is to take a 10% stake in Alexander Forbes, for a total cash consideration in excess of R753 million, by the end of January 2017.Shares in Alexander Forbes closed 2.92% higher at R6 per share, after the group delivered an 11% increase in interim normalised profit after tax of R464 million. At 30.8 cents, normalised headline earnings per share (heps) grew 13%. It lifted the interim dividend by a similar margin to 17 cents per share. 