South Africa needs a new growth model in order to address the country s serious political and economic challenges, says deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas. The continuation of our existing growth model with low growth and inherent structural inequality will increase spending pressures on welfare, social security and debt servicing. This is a scenario we cannot entertain, the deputy minister told delegates at a conference in Johannesburg.Although it may seem logical to increase spending on social services during periods of low economic growth, it doesn t solve the problems of rising unemployment and social unrest, Jonas said. We need redistribution with inclusive growth as opposed to redistribution with welfare, he said. He noted that growth in South Africa has been slowing since 2011, hamstrung by global macroeconomic headwinds and challenging conditions in the domestic mining and manufacturing industries as well as erratic politics , which undermine business and public sector confidence and trust in the system. Jonas called for exceptional leadership within all spheres of society and a new national consensus to promote growth. He also suggested three complementary national &#8220;obsessions&#8221; that all South Africans should want to stand and die for :He said the first task for the national collective should be to preserve the country s investment grade credit rating and spoke out against the destructive narrative that it is only important for white capital. Preserving the credit rating for South Africa is also as important for the poor and for the working class in this country. If we are downgraded, our borrowing costs will probably double, if not triple and that has huge implications for our social spending and some of the programmes that we are driving as a country, he said. South Africa must also address its low savings rate, low levels of fixed capital investment and lack of economic diversification &#8211; all of which see the country being described as a fragile economy. Fragile economies are those that have become too dependent on unreliable sources of foreign investment to finance their own growth initiatives, and in South Africa s case, even their infrastructure and social investments. What countries such as Brazil, Turkey and South Africa have in common is their extreme vulnerability to external shocks, with susceptibility to large-scale financial crises caused by even relatively small economic shocks. The reason for this has do to with the structure of the economy and the failure to implement necessary economic reforms at a time when they are highly needed, he said.Jonas said it is critical to reign-in government spending, with the cost of servicing debt for just one year being enough to fund the annual budgets of two additional provinces and provide free tertiary education for the next five years.He said increased public and private sector investment in the economy can be achieved through policy certainty and more deliberate efforts to ease the cost and ease of doing business. More diversified revenue streams, less reliance on commodity exports, and higher value-added manufacturing output, can also help South Africa escape from its current low-growth trap, he added. 