Citadel s R100 million acquisition of Consolidated Financial Planning (CFP) seems to be falling apart after several CFP financial advisors have left the group and Citadel instituted legal proceedings against Bruce Fleming, SA s current Financial Planner of the Year. Despite repeated requests from Moneyweb, Fleming elected not to comment on the unfolding events. The issue with Fleming is part of a broader problem the company has faced in trying to retain the 23 financial planners it acquired in the transaction when it was announced in January. Since then, nine of the planners (including Fleming) have parted ways with Citadel, and this included all of the client facing CFP staff in the Port Elizabeth office. But not all departures have been as acrimonious as that of Fleming. Citadel CEO, Andrew M ller, says the acquisition of CFP was different to previous Citadel acquisitions. We bought Consolidated from institutional shareholders as opposed to owner-managers. So while we consulted the shareholders which included the regional heads of the financial planning teams there were a number of employees that were not part of the decision. According to M ller, being acquired by Citadel also meant change for the financial planners joining them. For most of them, it meant joining a larger set-up that was more corporate in nature than what they were used to. Citadel also operates under the broader and more complex Category 2 licence, which meant some of the advisors would have to upskill to continue in their roles.So what happened with Fleming? He was not happy he had not been consulted [prior to the acquisition] even though he was not a shareholder, says M ller. And I think he felt a bit overwhelmed by the larger organisation and the Category 2 licence. So as far as I could see it, he didn t want to be part of a big business. According to M ller, the reason the matter between the two parties became acrimonious was due to Fleming having breached a restraint and non-solicitation agreement he had signed while still with CFP. A restraint entails a higher onus than just a non-solicitation agreement.In plain terms, Fleming was accused of contacting clients after he had left the employ of Citadel &#8211; something he was not allowed to do under the agreement he had signed. (While the advisory relationships are held with the individual planners, the clients belong to the company the advisor works for.) I told him it didn t have to be like this, says M ller. But he breached it. We had conclusive evidence and overwhelming proof. So we had to follow our rights. But after we instigated legal proceedings, I am satisfied that he is now honouring the agreement. 