As a niche and relatively young asset management firm, Capilis Asset Managers focuses heavily on mitigating risk for our client portfolios. When we look at our internal risk matrix, we believe that too few South African investors are paying attention to the risks of over-concentrating their assets domestically. We have prepared a series of articles for Moneyweb, to be published over the next few weeks, detailing why we believe that offshore investing should be front of mind for investors. We kick off with the most obvious issues of political uncertainty and the associated economic risks.We would argue that between now and the next general elections in 2019, South Africa is set for a tumultuous period of political uncertainty. If our intention is to minimise risk to client capital in a portfolio, then offshore investing makes sense: But what does this mean for your portfolio? As a South African firm, we want to tell a good story when it comes to the investment climate for the country. However we need to understand the opportunity cost that might occur, if we allow our clients to be overly concentrated in domestic assets.To highlight our point, we would use the example of the banking sector. Locally, banks offer a compelling investment case. FirstRand on a price-to-earnings (PE) multiple of 11 and a dividend yield of 4%, seems like a no-brainer. Standard Bank on a PE of 10 and dividend yield seems even better. But banks are cheap for a reason locally: the risk of an investment downgrade which is very real, especially in an environment where interest rates are likely to also begin to rise. For our clients, we need to debate whether it makes more sense to buy these local banks which could be hit hard by a downgrade or do we for instance look at the iShares US Financial ETF (Exchange Traded Fund) from BlackRock (Sharecode: IYF)? The ETF trades on a PE multiple of 15 times and offers a dividend yield, in US dollars terms, of 1.6%. It gives you access to the likes of Berkshire Hathaway, JP Morgan, Visa, Mastercard, Goldman Sachs and Citigroup.In a more normal investment climate, you could argue that the prices of local banks offer sufficient margin of safety to justify investing in them, but the risk of a downgrade and a general climate of uncertainty will make you think twice.We would argue that if one looks at the consensus forecasts for businesses such as Visa, Berkshire and Citigroup, they are in fact likely to grow their dividends faster than local banks in dollar terms, thereby mitigating the fact that you might be paying a higher multiple for them. As an asset management firm, our philosophy is to invest for the long-term and limit the downside risk to our clients. In the current investment climate, domestically-focused portfolios do not offer an attractive risk/reward trade-off and we feel that a focus on your offshore asset portfolios may be in order. Iwan Swiegers is with Capilis Asset ManagersCapilis Asset Managers and Moneyweb are currently offering community members the opportunity to win one of three R6 000 tax-free savings accounts. For more information click here . 