Last week I tweeted: At some point I ll stop mentioning this, but not yet. What are we doing to get millions of our people working? The outlook is hopeless at the moment; a wrecking ball is busy smashing the economy &#8211; the one instrument we could use to get millions of South Africans working and out of poverty. For all the rhetoric of a good story and developmental state that we hear from South Africa s politicians, the fact is that their actions are proving contrary. The ruling elite would rather condemn the country to death than take the risk of standing up for the economy.It is evident that the fragmentation of political power, the turmoil within the ruling alliance is following that dreaded path of most Latin American nations. We know how Latin America was lagging on development in the second half of the twentieth century, and we know its various growth strategies at different stages of its recent history.What will we have to show for the 21st century?Latin American nations fell behind and have not recovered since. Their politics is mostly to be blamed for their post-independence struggles. If the current trajectory of South Africa continues for much longer, such a time will come to pass some argue that the country is already falling behind.When compared with fellow African countries in eastern Africa, South Africa is heading toward the type of long-lasting stagnation from which we won t recover. The stakes are high though: Can South Africa survive a lost (very little economic growth) decade or more; or can the economy be easily be destroyed by it?South Africa seems to have an ambivalent relationship with the impact of political risk on its economy. It should not come as a surprise then, that global manufacturers and investors are looking to East Africa to expand their businesses. Volkswagen has already announced plans to assemble cars in Kenya. South Africa will struggle to keep up, thanks to the political crisis that is currently playing out. Indeed, this is already apparent because the country has become so inward-looking that it cannot adequately respond to external threats.The inaugural Africa Regional Integration Index Report indicates that East Africa is the leading destination for investment. Those with long memories may recall a time when politics of that region reduced them to some of Africa s poorest countries. Eventually their leaders came around. Yes, there are still political risks but almost all nations of EAC (East African Community) have advanced in reducing cross-border barriers to trade and other economic activity and the region is ahead of its peers in the categories of trade and productive integration.In contrast, the political crisis has transformed South Africa from a nation alive with possibilities and Africa s best economy&#8217; that once inspired enthusiasm, into something radically different. What was meant to be a country that avoided further political turmoil post 1994 for a common good has now been reduced to an a country that has failed to ensure that its political approach and policies are stable enough to spur economic growth.Policy makers and business leaders have actively discarded that common vision for reducing unemployment. More importantly, both have failed to ensure that income distribution means that the social income has a real effect on reducing poverty.Worryingly, the polarisation of ANC politicians shows no signs of slowing down. As a consequence, pragmatism and national matters will be put on hold in favour of lobbying and succession battles leading its congress in 2017, where the party s new leader will be elected.The major uncertainty facing this country is whether the structural reforms are going to take a long term and comprehensive view, building on the strengths of the private sector. South Africa today lacks a strategic approach on how to clear the uphill path to building a stronger and more productive economy.An old truth tells us that lack of understanding and sheer ignorance cause more harm in the world than wickedness. This is particularly the case of the current political elite at the helm of this country. There is no consideration of how implementation needs to be stepped up in a consistent way, while reducing uncertainty about government policies namely the NDP. They have failed to understand the importance of reducing uncertainty about government policies.The economic transformation and growth that South Africa s leaders have been calling for requires them to get up to speed about inter-action between economics and politics. Something they really don t get.I suggest the following:The gap is quickly closing; the East African nations are breathing down our necks; soon they will surpass South Africa and we won t be able to keep up. In the words of Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, the crisis in South African politics has led our economy to becoming unstable, unbalanced, un-coordinated and unsustainable. The future of this country will forever be marked by current events; much of what is happening today is driven by leaders who are sly, cunning, dangerous and totally self-serving.We must speak out, especially now &#8211; even when attacks on social media will label any black person critiquing the ruling ANC and political crisis they ve landed us in as having been captured by white monopoly capital (WMC).What price we pay if during times of crisis we don t speak up for fear of being perceived as siding with WMC. If we are serious about restoring an environment conducive to economic growth and creating jobs, it starts with telling our politicians: You are the problem! 