The number of big construction projects in Africa that have broken ground by June 1 2016 has decreased by 5%, compared with the previous year. The collective value has decreased by 14% to US$324 billion, the annual Deloitte Africa Construction Trends Report shows.Only projects with a value of more than US$ 50 million were taken into account.In Southern Africa the number of big projects dropped from 109 last year to 85, which represents almost 30% of all large projects on the continent. The number of big projects in the regions has been declining since 2013, when the region boasted 124 large projects. The collective value of the projects currently stands on US$ 93.4 billion, compared with US$ 140 billion last year.South Africa was the single country with the biggest number of projects (41), followed by Nigeria (38).The most active sectors were energy, transport and retail, with the huge infrastructure needs in the water sector still largely not being addressed, according to Deloitte associate director for corporate finance, J-P Labuschagne.The report points out that the World Economic Forum identified the risk of a water crisis as among the top three global risks for 2016, largely as a result of overuse, inadequate water infrastructure and poor water management.Africa, with its lower level of economic development, stands to be worst affected as a result of the lack of storage, treatment and irrigation infrastructure, despite abundant natural water resources.Labuschagne says despite the huge need for investment in water infrastructure, big water projects are still few and far between on the continent. The water sector saw only 11 (3.8%) projects in 2016, to the total value of US$4.3 billion (1.3% of total value).Of these, South Africa boasts three projects, namely the Mokolo and Crocodile Water Augmentation Project (US$ 1.1 billion), Western Aqueduct Project Phase II (US$ 0.15 billion) and the Brits Water Treatment Works (US$ 0.03 billion).Labuschagne says it is regrettable that there has not been any great push to improve water infrastructure, as seen with regard to energy projects in general and renewable energy on the continent.He says there are some smaller water projects, mostly refurbishments at municipal level, but not enough is happening. The drought might put some focus on the need for infrastructure and more people are talking about it, he says.The Water Research Commission put non-revenue water losses, which is lost through leaks, at 37% in 2013. This, Labuschagne says, has to be addressed.He says water provision is, however, more politically charged than, for example, provision of electricity and water cannot be disconnected for non-payment. This, he says, raises questions about how to get the private sector involved. The question is who carries the risk of the end-user not paying.Neglecting the water issue, however, might impact food security and has a social impact as well, as it is usually women and children who collect water. A child who has to collect water cannot attend school , he says.Currently, the majority of water projects on the continent (48%) are funded by government and 20% by international development finance institutions. A third are being constructed by private domestic companies and 20% each by Chinese and Italian companies.Labuschagne says Chinese entities are more active in Central and East Africa where they fund and build projects. There are good and bad jobs, depending mostly on how well the African governments structure and monitor projects. African governments are becoming more aware of how they should interact with big project contractors, he says.Asked where the sweet spot is for contractors in Africa, Labuschagne pointed out hat real estate developments are doing very well as economies develop, with the added advantage that it provides the opportunity to diversify away from the public sector as a client.He says there should be more public private partnerships (PPPs). If the renewable energy projects in South Africa are stripped out, there are actually very few active PPPs. This he ascribes to government s budget crunch and the cumbersome process.On the rest of the continent there is appetite for PPPs in the roads sector, he says.There is further a lot of scope for renewable energy projects on the rest of the continent. They are quick to construct and contractors experience in South Africa might put them in a good position to win such contracts.He said commodities will turn around and in the water sector contractors who propose a packaged solution within the legislative framework might stand a better chance of winning contracts.