Cartrack is relatively new on the JSE, having listed less than two years ago. What has fascinated us is its superior margins relative to peers, supported by its cash-generation abilities. However, during this reporting season we were spooked by the fall in its operating margin to 30.3% from 34.9%, with the group having maintained it north of 34% since listing.Founder and CEO Zak Calisto tells Intellidex that the high margins relative to the industry are driven by strong adherence to a well-documented reporting process throughout its operations, which increases efficiency. Coupled with a favourable pricing and incentive regime, this is key to recruiting and retaining clients for longer periods, thus deriving more value from recruitment costs. He believes there is still much growth potential in data analytics (from data collected on customer behaviour) with a wide range of uses across industries but particularly in the logistics and insurance markets.He says the African operations have dragged down the performance, a phenomenon he expects to persist in the short term given the downturn in the commodity cycle. It highlights the risks of operating in frontier markets where demand is elastic and currencies are volatile. The rand s fluctuations exacerbate the situation.However, the company is positioned for potential high growth in the medium term. It has spread its operations to Asia &amp; Middle East, Europe and the US. Heavy investment in these geographies is adding pressure to the financial performance.Cartrack s flagship stolen vehicle recovery technology which has consistently maintained a vehicle recovery rate of 93% is its major differentiator. The group is set invest heavily in research and development, data analytics and distribution channels to grow the subscriber base. It may require additional cash to support this growth, and as such will need to retain more cash which will lower its payout ratio in the interim. If necessary it can also borrow the company has no debt.The telematics industry has low penetration globally but the market ecosystem is competitive with some car manufactures now developing their own telematics systems.Calisto doesn t view this as a major threat though because in car fleets made up of different makes of vehicle, it s more efficient to use one telematics system such as Cartrack s rather than a variety of preinstalled products. Calisto holds about 80% of the stock, which has both advantages and shortcomings. It aligns his interests with that of shareholders but it makes it difficult for retail investors to accumulate the stock.Based on our discounted cash-flow valuation, we believe the counter is trading within its fair value range. Our valuation considered the elevated establishment costs in new geographies as well as the high risk involved in moving into new locations Asia-Pacific and the Middle East are still in the red. However, we believe that the counter has potential to outperform in the medium term as new operations bed down and a firm growth trajectory establishes itself. In the interim we change our opinion to hold from buy. Performance reviewInterim results to end-August were hit by troubled African economies and their depreciating currencies, a volatile rand and establishment costs in the new geographies. SA still contributes the lion s share of revenue at 75%, marginally down from 76%. The appreciation of the rand since March saw translated revenue fall by R17m, while average revenue per unit decreased marginally, by less than 1%, to R1 051.Cartrack experienced 19% subscriber growth to 551 000. The growth constituted 78 000 fleet subscribers and 11 000 stolen vehicle recovery subscribers. But growth in other African countries was limited to just 4%.The gross profit margin narrowed to 80% (1H16: 82%). This was due to the fall in translated revenue as the rand strengthened during 1H17. In contrast, the cost base was elevated by the weak rand as inputs were acquired at the beginning of the year, before the rand strengthened. The margin at operating level was further reduced by increased depreciation and provisions for doubtful debts, particularly in Africa. Also, operating expenses increased because Europe, the US and AsiaPacific &amp; Middle East are still building operational capacity to grow revenue.The South African operations grew profit before tax by 14% while other African countries shrank 19%. In Europe and AsiaPacific &amp; Middle East, sales are growing way faster than the group average. However, profit before tax in Europe faltered 27% due to investing in its operational capacity. Asia reduced its loss to R4m from R6m and management expects it to break even by year-end.A line item worth observing is depreciation, which increased by 46%. Calisto tells Intellidex that it is a positive business signal when depreciation is accelerating because it shows that the company is acquiring new clients. Cartrack subscribers have an average life of five years in which they generate annuity income for the company.Bull factorsBear factorsNature of business: Cartrack provides fleet management, stolen vehicle recovery and insurance telematics services. The business incorporates global asset tracking, monitoring and recovery services with the provision of fleet management information systems from a platform of telematics technologies. While its principal operations are in SA, Cartrack is expanding into the rest of Africa, Europe, the Middle East, Asia-Pacific and the US. Telematics is the technology of sending, receiving and storing information relating to remote objects such as vehicles via telecommunication devicesDisclosures: The analyst has no financial exposure to the instrument discussed. The opinion represents his true view. For Intellidex s full disclaimer, please click here. Looking for somebody to help you build wealth? Name* Surname* Contact Number* Email* Approximate Portfolio SizeI require: Alternative Investments Derivatives Financial Planner Forex Trading Managed Portfolio Offshore Investing Tax Free Investment Accounts Technical Trading Education NameThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.