Tesla Motors Inc. and SolarCity Corp. shareholders are poised to give Elon Musk a shot at perhaps his boldest plan yet, by signing off on the combination of two clean-energy companies with a track record for fleeting profits and frequent fundraising needs.All that stands between the marriage of companies Musk says stayed separate as an accident of history is the tally of shareholder voting results by each company Thursday. Tesla has lost about $4.8 billion in market capitalisation since the electric-car maker offered to buy the solar systems installer on June 21, while SolarCity s has declined by about $86 million.Declining market value aside, analysts anticipate the deal will be approved. Musk, 45, has laid out his vision for a vertically integrated clean energy behemoth offering consumers electric cars, solar roofs and batteries for the home. Tesla has forecast SolarCity will add $1 billion in revenue to the combined company next year and $500 million in cash to its balance sheet over the next three years. We fully expect the deal to go through, Jeffrey Osborne, an analyst who covers both Tesla and SolarCity for Cowen &amp; Co., said Wednesday. Every Tesla shareholder I ve talked to has the view that a year from now, we won t be talking about SolarCity s cash needs &#8211; the solar-plus-storage story will be playing out. Musk owns 21% of Tesla and 22% of SolarCity, making him the largest shareholder of both companies. He and director Antonio Gracias, who also serves on both boards, recused themselves from voting on the takeover July 30. The all-stock deal is worth $20.23 per share, a premium of 2% based on SolarCity s closing price Wednesday. The premium was about 35% when first announced.Tesla slipped less than 1% to $183.90 as of 9:41 a.m. in New York trading, while SolarCity declined 0.4% to $19.74.The quarterly profit Tesla reported last month was the first for the Palo Alto, California-based company in eight quarters. SolarCity has recorded losses in six of the last eight quarters. The two companies have conducted five separate equity offerings since the San Mateo, California-based solar company first sold shares to the public in December 2012.Investor Jim Chanos, whose firm Kynikos Associates Ltd. saw weakness in Enron Inc. before its collapse, has been highly critical of the merger in part because of the $2.89 billion in SolarCity debt Tesla will be taking on.While any shareholder who votes for the deal needs to have their head examined, Chanos told Bloomberg Television in an interview Wednesday, he expects the deal to go through.Trump looms Looming over the shareholder voting result and the companies future will be the election of Donald Trump. The president-elect has vowed to relax environmental regulations and tapped Myron Ebell, a climate-change sceptic, to head of his Environmental Protection Agency transition team. Gordon Johnson, an analyst at Axiom Capital Management Inc., downgraded seven solar companies Tuesday, citing his expectation for less favourable renewable energy policies from Trump s administration. Musk, a South Africa-born immigrant, has come under fire from conservative activists who would like to roll back subsidies for clean energy. The advocacy group Citizens for the Republic has called for Congress to end federal subsidies for all Elon Musk companies, including solar investment tax credits.Fans of Musk and his vision, meanwhile, are doubling down. Austen Allred, an executive at San Francisco-based startup LendUp, wrote Musk on Wednesday to say he put 100% of his net worth into Tesla, adding: Don t even care if I lose it all. Thank you for what you re doing and have done. Wow, thanks, Musk wrote back on Twitter. We won t let you down. SolarCity shareholders are scheduled to meet at 11 a.m. Pacific time in Foster City, California. Tesla shareholders are poised to gather two hours later in Fremont, California. The Tesla meeting will be webcast live to the public. 2016 Bloomberg L.P