Emerging markets went into a tailspin as Donald Trump s US presidential election victory fuelled concern the world s largest economy may turn protectionist, jeopardising benefits flowing to developing nations from trade deals and immigration.Mexico s peso, the currency most vulnerable to Trump s policies, dropped the most since 1994 on a closing basis as the Republican candidate defied forecasts by winning the race for the White House. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks headed for the biggest slump since the day after the UK s vote to leave the European Union. Benchmark gauges in Brazil, China and South Korea fell at least 2%. Ukrainian Eurobonds dropped the most in nine months.The declines threaten the best rally in developing-nation equities since 2012 and the biggest gain for currencies in six years as Trump s campaign pledges to curb immigration and renegotiate trade deals sap risk appetite. Wednesday s selloff was concentrated in countries such as Mexico, South Korea and South Africa, which are seen as most vulnerable to such decisions. It is yet another reminder to the establishment that most electorates are unhappy, said Simon Quijano-Evans, a strategist at Legal &amp; General Group Plc in London. The big question now is how protectionist the US will become. The most exposed countries in emerging markets include those that are very open, those that send most of their exports to the US, and those that rely on net remittances. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 2.4% to 880.96 at 9:03 a.m. in New York, paring losses of as much as 3.3% after Trump, giving his victory speech, sought reconciliation and cooperation with his political opponents. A loss of this magnitude at close would be the worst since June 24. A gauge of currencies declined 0.8%, led by the peso and South Africa s rand.The turmoil prompted traders to cut wagers for a Federal Reserve interest-rate increase next month. The market-implied probability of a December move fell to as low as 47%, based on US overnight indexed swaps. That compares with 82% as of 5 p.m. in New York on Tuesday.Volatility surge One-month expected price swings in the Mexican peso jumped as much as 52%, the most in eight years on a closing basis, signalling that traders are betting on further declines. The measure of turbulence eased to a 31% increase later.Historical volatility on the MSCI Emerging Markets Currency Index rose for a third day, after falling to a nine-month low last week.Swings on the MSCI stocks measure increased for a third day to the widest since August, based on 50-day price moves.Currencies The index of emerging-market exchange rates dropped for the first time in three days. The peso weakened 9.7% to halt a four-day gain. South Africa s rand retreated 2.3% and Turkey s lira declined 1.6%, while South Korea s won lost 1.3%. Colombia s peso slid 2%.Stocks The MSCI Emerging Markets Index posted the steepest decline since September 12. The measure trades at 12.1 times the projected earnings of its members, above the five-year average of 10.8 times.India s S&amp;P BSE Sensex slipped 1.2% after Prime Minister Narendra Modi s government unexpectedly withdrew high-denomination banknotes.Russia s RTS Index of dollar-denominated stocks advanced 1.8%, the most since September 29, amid speculation that the country s relationship with the US will improve after Trump s election.The Ibovespa slid 2.3% in Sao Paulo, ending a two-day rally. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index fell 2.9%. South Korea s Kospi dropped 2.3% and Taiwan s Taiex lost 3%.Bonds Ukrainian bonds fell on speculation Trump will be less willing than his predecessor to protect the eastern European nation from Russian aggression. Yields on the country s Eurobonds maturing in September 2019 surged 78 basis points to 8.57%, the biggest increase since February 9. Trump has vowed to improve ties with Russia and review the US position on Crimea.The premium investors demand to own developing-nation sovereign debt over US Treasuries widened three basis points to 335, according to JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. indexes. 2016 Bloomberg L.P