SIKI MGABADELI: We are looking at doing business in Africa now, looking at who is investing in where. The slump in commodities is seeing many of our continent s economies coming under some pressure, but there are still some areas of growth, according to the IMF s World Economic Outlook for 2016. Standard Bank of course is the biggest bank on the continent, and it&#8217;s been doing business across the continent. So who better to ask than their head of commercial banking, Dr Manessah Alagbaoso. Thank you so much, Dr Manessah, for your time today.I suppose the first question to ask is: to what extent the fall we&#8217;ve seen in commodity prices has actually put the brakes on growth in many of our economies on the continent?MANESSAH ALAGBAOSO: Of course, the impression is really [indistinct]. However, I have said in general forums and I still maintain that Africa is not defined by commodity. All the discourse currently is about a commodity price slowdown, which is true. And unfortunately this adversely affects the economies such as Nigeria, Angola and even South Africa that you are living in.But if you look at countries like C te d&#8217;Ivoire , Kenya and some other East African countries, Ghana even though commodities &#8230; not to the same extent but Nigeria and Angola, if you look at these countries you see that the diversification of the economies is already beginning to bear fruit. They are not where they should be, but it is beginning to bear fruit. So the story about There are other sectors There are other countries that are showing good growth and good prospects for the future. And the future looks very promising SIKI MGABADELI: And in what direction are these companies diversifying? What sort of sectors?MANESSAH ALAGBAOSO: The predominant sectors across Africa are currently agriculture, mostly agro-processes. So what happened in the past you have a situation where African countries predominantly export raw materials. That is beginning to change. So beneficiation has started happening. The raw materials are being processed now to supplement before they get exported or sold. We have that happening across Africa.With agro-processing comes mechanisation and have money It&#8217;s not only just getting the raw material and export the output of processing actually becomes input into order manufacturing and entities which you will see grow as time progresses.SIKI MGABADELI: I saw a story recently about Kenya s tea market and how they are promoting purple tea now in order to expand beyond just black tea. That s quite interesting. Who is investing in this diversification? Is it our governments, are we getting development finance institutions, outside investors? Who s doing it?MANESSAH ALAGBAOSO: Mostly government. And the area we are looking at now is medium-sized businesses because, when we talk about investment, a lot of time we talk about large investing . Of course, big companies don t have a grant and you hear a lot about it, but what is happening in Africa today is that government has realised that every single country in Africa has to play in a globalised economy, which means they have to be competitive.So governments have assisted [and ] in the recent past there has been a lot of dialogue between government and private sector on how to shape policy that will be not like in the past where governments do what they have to do and the private sector does what it has to do.There s a lot of coming together now. And thrown into that mix is businesses themselves You will have government people sitting down with business people and actual business owners. When I say business people, not just banks but actual business owners who are at the coal face, who make these things happen and discuss policy and the difference that policy options to have made every single one of these sectors competitive.SIKI MGABADELI: That s Dr Manessah Alagbaoso, who is head of commercial banking at Standard Bank.The interview is on our website.