JOHANNESBURG Talk to people approaching retirement and chances are the conversation will turn to the best type of annuity to buy.Often it comes down to purchasing a living annuity or buying a guaranteed annuity. The former offers investment choice, the option to leave savings to beneficiaries upon death and an opportunity to choose a higher initial drawdown rate. The latter guarantees a pension for life.Many South Africans reach retirement without enough savings to sustain their standard of living, and argue a living annuity would allow them to stay in the market to make up the shortfall. Advisors may also push living annuities due to the relatively higher fees they can earn. As a result, living annuities are the far more popular choice.But investors, who often don t appreciate the devastating impact that drawing too much from a living annuity could have, underestimate the effect of longevity and invest too conservatively. At 65, the average life expectancy for males is another 16 years and 20 years for females. This is still a long-term investment horizon.While critics argue that a guaranteed annuity is the better proposition for most people, Deane Moore, CEO of Just Retirement, believes people should rather consider putting a portion of their savings in a guaranteed annuity and a portion in a living annuity.The money investors need to survive on to pay for food, rent, insurance and utilities should come from a guaranteed annuity, while a living annuity can be used to fund additional expenses. When markets experience bad years, investors won t have to draw from their capital because their basic needs would be covered by a guaranteed annuity, he says.The problem is that many people haven t saved nearly enough and may argue that they won t be able to sustain themselves by buying a guaranteed annuity. With a living annuity the investor carries the longevity as well as the investment risk, but is allowed to draw up to 17.5% per annum, allowing a higher initial monthly income, but also a much higher probability of running out of money after a few years.Moore says retirement is not the time to take risks. Investors who take risks while working may only have to work a few extra years if their bets don t pay off, but retirees with no other source of income cannot afford for things to go south.The lack of interest in guaranteed annuities may arguably also be due to the wide range of iterations available and limited knowledge of the options. A retirement expert recently expressed his shock because a high-profile financial planner didn t know what a with-profit annuity was.A with-profit annuity is a type of guaranteed annuity that provides a guaranteed monthly income while targeting annual increases in excess of inflation by increasing the exposure to growth assets. The returns are smoothed over a period of around six years (depending on the product provider) so that increases aren t directly related to the performance of markets in one particular year.There are also options to add a guarantee period to a guaranteed annuity. If something happens to the retiree and his or her spouse, the guaranteed annuity could be paid to beneficiaries for up to 20 years.Moore says their calculations suggest that investors could get their money back from a guaranteed annuity either as annuity income or when it is paid to the spouse or beneficiaries as long as a guarantee period of between ten and 15 years is in place.What the numbers look likeThe Association for Savings and Investment South Africa (Asisa) has previously cautioned that living annuity investors shouldn t draw more than 5% per annum. Calculations by Just Retirement suggest that investors could get an income in excess of a 5% drawdown rate from a guaranteed with-profit annuity (see table below). Since the average female has a higher life expectancy in retirement than the average male, her monthly income is lower at the same age. At a more mature age, the income is significantly higher than the 5% suggested drawdown for a living annuity.Income from R1 million capital AnnualMonthlyPercentageMarried couple, age 65 and 62R 60 000R 5 0006.0%Single female, age 65R 75 000R 6 2507.5%Single male, age 65R 90 000R 7 5009.0%Married couple, age 75 and 72R 85 000R 7 0838.5%Single female, age 75R 110 000R 9 16711.0%Single male, age 75R 130 000R 10 83313.0%But Moore says he is not arguing that people should invest all their retirement savings in a guaranteed annuity. We are just saying that people should think about putting a portion of their money in a guaranteed annuity and a portion in a living annuity because they meet different purposes, he says.