While it may be an unpopular statement, we believe an argument could be made for saying that South Africa has run out of high-growth investment opportunities in the short-term, and this could be one more reason for diversifying your portfolio offshore.As a country which performed the first heart transplant, built a global brewing giant (SABMiller), one of the most innovative insurers in the world (Discovery), the world s most innovative bank in 2012 (FNB) and produced the man who has a realistic chance of colonising Mars (Elon Musk), this might be a bitter pill to swallow. Perhaps our caveat to this statement should be that we would be referring to innovative investment ideas that ordinary retail investors can participate in. To frame this statement, we would look at the emergence of SPACs (Special Purpose Acquisition Company) an asset class which has taken off in the last few years. A SPAC is a vehicle which has no viable assets but will raise capital on the strength of its management team and then seek to invest in high-growth assets. Below we outline some of the SPACs and their current market capitalisation: SPACMarket CapitalisationSacovenR42m Renergen Ltd.R1bnM Fitec InternationalR83mHulisani Ltd.R650mGAIA Infrastructure CapitalR468mCapital AppreciationR1.1bnA SPAC has a limited period of time in which it can identify a viable asset and make an investment. If it fails to identify an asset, it needs to return the cash to its shareholders. Sacoven recently announced it had been unable to find an asset and would be returning money to shareholders, Capital Appreciation has yet to identify a viable asset one year down the line and while M Fitec is rumoured to be in discussions with a financial services business, it has yet to identify any real opportunities in the technology or fintech space.Many of these SPACs are led by some of the brightest investment minds and dealmakers in the country and if they are battling to find growth assets at the right price, it suggests that maybe the best opportunities are outside of South Africa. Elon Musk and Tesla obviously grab a lot of the headlines when it comes to being innovative and disruptive in the technology space, but what about some of the following: Sectors like technology and pharmaceutical or biotechnology are hugely under-represented in South African markets, and yet they are major investment opportunities for investors.Looking at your assets tacticallyThere is no doubt that South Africa has world-class businesses which are listed on the JSE. If one looks at a variety of global rankings, there is a reasonable expectation that our financial services sector will continue to be globally competitive. Our job as asset managers is to balance risk and reward. The domestic financial services sector faces a variety of challenges including political risk and knock-on effects of the country being downgraded to junk status. For us, we are quite closely watching the World Bank &#8216;Doing Business&#8217; Report and it shows a clear slide in the South African rankings. If you compare the 2016 and 2017 reports, South Africa has dropped in the following categories:&nbsp;While the changes are not dramatic, if one compares it to Kenya for instance, one starts to appreciate how rapidly we are losing our competitiveness in a globally competitive marketplace.&nbsp;South Africa 2017 ranking2016 Ranking Kenya2017 Ranking 2016 RankingOverall7472 Overall92113Starting a Business131125 Starting a Business116150Dealing with construction permits9998 Dealing with construction permits152155Getting electricity111108 Getting electricity106127Registering property105100 Registering property121122Getting credit6260 Getting credit3229Protecting minority investors2218 Protecting minority investors87112Paying taxes5149 Paying taxes125122Trading across borders139137 Trading across borders105107Enforcing contracts113110 Enforcing contracts8785&nbsp;Over the past couple of years, Kenya has been very successful at attracting foreign investment particularly in the technology sector. In many ways, the Kenyan technology sector might present a better investment opportunity than those presented on the JSE. For investors only focused on local shares, they might be missing an opportunity by not opening their eyes to the iShares MSCI Frontier 100 Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) which gives you 6.25% weighting toward the Kenyan market. South Africa has quality businesses in certain sectors but our capital markets are not geared to allow investors to participate in other sectors which are under-developed. Tactically it makes sense to position your portfolios to give you access to a complete suite of sectors. &nbsp;Iwan Swiegers is with Capilis Asset ManagersThis is a second in a series of articles for Moneyweb detailing the case for offshore investment. Capilis Asset Managers and Moneyweb are currently offering community members the opportunity to win one of three R6 000 tax-free savings accounts for more information click here. 