CAPE TOWN Over the last decade, the listed property sector on the JSE has seen significant growth. From 1.7% of the FTSE/JSE All Share Index in 2006, the local real estate sector is now over 4.6% of the market.This has been through substantial growth in a number of established companies, new listings, and consolidation within the sector. Listed real estate is now considered an important component of most portfolios.An added benefit to South African investors is that a number of real estate companies that have listed locally own assets that are based entirely offshore. This has meant that locals are in the fortunate position of being able to invest in international property markets without having to take their money any further than the JSE.The likes New Europe Investment Properties (Nepi), Capital &amp; Counties, MAS and Rockcastle have also proved to be extremely good investments. Over the last five years, Nepi&#8217;s share price has gained around 360%, Rockcastle is 160% up, Capital &amp; Counties is 140% higher and MAS has climbed 90%.South African investors have therefore become quite comfortable with holding these stocks, and with the idea of offshore property exposure in general. However, for anyone looking for genuine global property exposure, what is available on the JSE is really a very limited opportunity set. There are some very good companies listed here, says Gareth Stobie, the MD of CoreShares, but what investors might not realise is that if they only invest in the offshore property stocks listed on the JSE they are getting very concentrated exposures. Significantly, almost every one of the JSE-listed international real estate counters is primarily exposed to the UK market. Three of the largest Redefine International, Capital &amp; Counties and Intu are almost exclusively UK-focused.The exceptions are Nepi, which is 100% based in Eastern Europe, and Rockcastle, which has its largest exposure to the US. Interestingly, however, Rockcastle is the only locally-listed real estate company with any assets in the US at all. Even if you invested in every one of the international property companies on the JSE, about 60% of your exposure would be to the UK, says Stobie. For the rest, Eastern and Western Europe would make up around 17%, and the remainder would be the US and a very small exposure to Singapore. When compared with global property indices, this is not very representative of the worldwide market. The FTSE ERPA/NAREIT Global Index has a 49% exposure to the US, and just over 4% to the UK. It also holds around 10% in Japan, 7% in Hong Kong and 4% in China.The S&amp;P Global Property Index is similar. Just over 45% of its exposure is to the US, with over 12% in Japan, 7% in Hong Kong and a little under 6% in Australia. The UK is under 4% of the index.What&#8217;s also significant is the relative size of the companies listed on the JSE compared to the their top global peers. The largest international stock with a local listing is Hammerson, with a market cap of around R82 billion. Intu is valued around R71 billion and Nepi R51 billion.The combined market cap of all the locally-listed international property stocks is around R311 billion.This is dwarfed by the largest listed real estate company in the world, Simon Property Group. It has a market cap of $61 billion (R840 billion), which is ten times larger than Hammerson. In fact, every one of the top five global property companies is bigger individually than the entire offshore component of the local market. The locally-listed companies are smaller than most investors realise, says Stobie. So for anyone looking for genuine global exposure to the world&#8217;s largest property stocks, they really need to look beyond the JSE. One way of doing this is through the few local unit trusts that offer global property exposure. Another efficient and cost-effective option is to use an index-tracker that provides a broad exposure to a number of companies and markets.CoreShares recently launched the first global property exchange-traded fund (ETF) available on the JSE. The CoreShares Global Property ETF tracks the S&amp;P Global Property 40 Index, which covers 40 of the largest listed real estate companies in the world.This includes US-based Simon Property Group, as well as the likes of Japanese giant Mitsubishi Estates, Hong Kong&#8217;s largest developer Sun Hung Kai, and specialise healthcare property company Ventas. With a global index, you get currency diversification, geographic diversification, sector diversification and share diversification, Stobie says. That reduces the very specific risks investors may be unwittingly taking if they only invested in offshore property through what is available on the JSE. This article was sponsored by CoreShares.