Oil declined in New York as OPEC members failed to agree on the role of Iraq and Iran in a supply deal just one week before the group s official summit.Futures fell as much as 1.2% after preliminary talks in Vienna ended Tuesday without deciding whether OPEC s second- and third-largest producers will participate in output cuts. The matter will be deferred until the ministerial meeting on November 30, two delegates said. Oil also dropped as the dollar rallied.Oil has remained volatile amid speculation that the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries may fail to implement output cuts first outlined in September. Iran is boosting production and Iraq is seeking an exemption because of its war with Islamist militants. Saudi Arabia s Energy Minister Khalid Al-Falih has expressed optimism a deal can be reached, and traders and analysts had grown more confident this week that a consensus is possible. OPEC has to come up with some sort of an agreement, otherwise it s a big loss of credibility, especially after Saudi Arabia has been quite outspoken about getting a deal, said Norbert Ruecker, head of commodity research at Julius Baer Group Ltd. in Zurich. There are many stumbling blocks. Iran and Iraq s participation has been exactly what they have struggled with in the past two months. West Texas Intermediate for January delivery traded at $47.64 a barrel, down 0.8%, on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 8:51 a.m. local time. Prices fell 21 cents to $48.03 on Tuesday. Total volume traded Wednesday was about 1% above the 100-day average.Brent for January settlement dropped 32 cents, or 0.7%, to $48.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, a $1.16 premium to WTI. The global benchmark crude advanced 0.5% on Tuesday.The Bloomberg Dollar Spot index added as much as 0.6%, erasing an earlier decline of 0.1%. A rising dollar makes commodities priced in the currency less appealing.Production cuts The results of Tuesday s talks will be presented to ministers next week, Libya s OPEC Governor Mohamed Oun said, declining to comment on whether Iran and Iraq are willing to limit output. Under the group s preliminary accord reached late September in Algiers, collective output would drop to as little as 32.5 million barrels a day. That compares with its estimated October production of 33.6 million a day.Oil-market newsUS crude stockpiles fell by 1.28 million barrels last week, the industry-funded American Petroleum Institute reported Tuesday, according to people familiar with the figures. A Bloomberg survey forecast a 1 million-barrel gain. The government will release the data Wednesday. Russia, the world s biggest energy exporter, still plans to hold talks with OPEC on November 28, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said in Moscow. 2016 Bloomberg L.P