Golf courses with their greedy reliance on water, herbicides, synthetic fertilisers and pesticides are probably best kept far apart from world heritage sites &#8211; our legacies from the past and gift to future generations.Yet at Pinnacle Point Estate outside Mossel Bay, a golf course that is said to rival the US s Pebble Beach in beauty lies directly above a series of coastal caves that contain archaeological artefacts and other physical evidence that suggest they were occupied by Stone Age people between about 165 000 and 50 000 years ago.These caves, which are critically important to the understanding of how and when fully modern humans evolved, would be irreparably damaged by the groundwater and chemicals leaching from above if it were not for a close working relationship between those running the golf estate, the Western Cape Heritage Society and the scientists from the University of Arizona who are conducting research on the caves.Pinnacle Point caves present the earliest evidence of modern human behaviourThe relationship has advanced to the point that the Mossel Bay municipality is applying for world heritage status for the site, which currently enjoys provincial heritage status.It was not always this way. The original developers of Pinnacle Point did not manage the environmental side and ignored the sensitivity of the caves to the extent that a putting green was constructed above the caves, says Carl van der Linde, Pinnacle Point s general manager. We have reconstructed the area, and are now fully environmentally compliant. The golf course is watered every night using grey water filtered through the Estate s own wastewater treatment plant and all lawn chemicals used are environmentally friendly. The water leaching into the caves is tested twice a month for the presence of harmful chemicals.It is not just management of the golf course that is different at Pinnacle Point, just about everything has changed since 2011 when the Estate s Home Owner s Association assumed responsibility for running the entire show.At the time sensational liquidation hearings into Pinnacle Point Resorts, the original developers of the estate, were ongoing with claims and counter-claims the order of the day and out-of pocket investors adding to the media carnival.While the estate was being run as a separate and going concern, vested interests and infighting almost sabotaged any efforts to revive it. The estate was run by a board that included representatives from the liquidators, developers, Investec and the HOA. Each party was looking after their own interests which was detrimental to the property as a whole, says Jeff Salant, chairman of the HOA. Standards were deteriorating, our accounts were a disaster and Investec, one of the largest creditors threatened to sell to the first bidder. Salant was instrumental in getting the various parties to align their interests and allow the Home Owners Association (HOA) to run the Estate for the greater good. By insourcing services such as landscaping, security, food &amp; beverage and golf-cart maintenance the HOA was able to cut costs and stabilise the financials. In addition, tighter controls and better data-base management improved collection of home-owner levies which are used for maintenance and replacement of current assets.Once the golf-course was restored to its former glory, golf, food &amp; beverage and the Louis Oosthuizen Golf Academy began to thrive. This income, together with income from electricity sales and house sales (1% of the selling price goes to the HOA) has put the HOA on a pretty financial footing.Stand and house prices have improved as the Estate has stabilised and investors have recognised that Pinnacle Point Golf Estate and Pinnacle Point Resorts, which is under liquidation, are two different entities. &#8220;Investec was able to sell one of their stands for R2.4 million the other day,&#8221; says Salant. &#8220;In 2011 they could not give them away.&#8221;The 450 hectare estate has 719 properties. Of these 120 are older, original lodges; 113 are more modern villas and 486 are residential properties, of which 198 are stands.Sales are picking up with R190 million of sales concluded between January 2015 and April 2016, says Van der Linde.Roughly 60% of owners are South African families and only 80 of the home-owners are permanent tenants on the estate. However, more families seem to be considering moving out of the urban metropoles with the main bread-winner commuting. &#8220;George airport is 40 kilometres away,&#8221; he says.While the better schools are in George, there is a Curro on the estate boundary. With cashflow under control, the HOA embarked on an ambitious plan to redevelop the estate. The first step was to build a R19 million function centre and spa, adjoining the clubhouse. The opening of this facility was recently celebrated with the inaugural Pinnacle Point Invitational.What is remarkable is that this project was completed without raising outside funding &#8211; and without tapping into home-owner levies. &#8220;Investec was cautious and would not allow us to encumber the balance sheet,&#8221; Salant says. Funds were derived from &#8216;other&#8217; income, notably the golf course.It costs almost R950 for a round of golf, including the golf-cart and 80% of golfing revenues comes from visitors. &#8220;This is not a member-driven golf-course,&#8221; says Van der Linde. &#8220;This is a bucket-list golf course.&#8221;Further plans include the development of new squash courts and a boutique gym at the driving range and 14 new loft-style apartments for the Estate. The winners in this story appear to be the property owners who were prepared to hang on for the duration. However, those home-owners who paid R500 000 plus for a premium membership and pension funds who made loans without securing their investment have had to cut their losses. The writer was a guest at the Pinnacle Point Invitational