SIKI MGABADELI: We are bringing you our Tipping Point feature, which is about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are.Today we are speaking to Lindani Dhlamini, who is co-founder and CEO of SekelaXabiso. She takes us through her journey LINDANI DHLAMINI : I took an unconventional route to becoming a chartered accountant. My initial career aspiration was to become a doctor. When I didn t get into medicine somehow I ended up having to do my second option, which was a BSc in Computer Science.My first job was at a company called Southern Life. It was an insurance company in Cape Town and the boss, the top boss in that company, happened to be a chartered accountant. So as a new graduate who was at the bottom of the ladder, looking at this, I thought, oh, goodness me, I&#8217;ve made the wrong choice.TUMISANG NDLOVU: [Laughing]LINDANI DHLAMINI : For me to have a big office, a corner office, a glass office I needed to change my career. So I changed, qualified as a chartered accountant and they say the rest if history.TUMISANG NDLOVU: I love this history because now we have SekelaXabiso. Tell us more.LINDANI DHLAMINI : Well, for those who are not Nguni-speaking, the name SekelaXabiso has got a very deep meaning, which is exactly what it is we do in my organisation. Sekela means support, and Xabiso means value. So through the work that we do in my organisation we support value for businesses, and we do this by helping organisations manage risk.So we are a risk and business consulting advisory firm. We do things like internal audits, which involves working with management to ensure that they ve got proper internal controls and processes. We do things like forensic audits again from a risk-management perspective where we make sure that you prevent fraud happening in your organisation. But in the unfortunate event that it does happen, we help you investigate and pinpoint where the fault is.We do things like transaction advisory, where we do mergers and acquisitions. We do things like actuarial and insurance services, where we work with insurance companies on risk management, again.And we do things like asset management as in physical asset management as part of our business consulting business unit.So it&#8217;s quite a broad range of services that we offer as an organisation. But, like I said, it&#8217;s around helping management and businesses manage risk.TUMISANG NDLOVU: What did it take for you to start up?LINDANI DHLAMINI : I suppose I always say I was young, ignorant and arrogant. But I had a vison. I&#8217;m the kind of person who doesn t want to stand by the sidelines in terms of contribution to the transformation of our society. So I wanted to be a catalyst and I wanted to contribute. And for me starting a firm was the vehicle that I could use to be a contributor to the transformation of our society.I come from a township in KZN, Umlazi, I still think that opportunities for black children are very sparse and very hard to come by for many, many reasons. And some of those reasons are just a lack of role models and a lack of seeing that a person that looks like you can actually achieve it.So I wanted to be that person that a young child can look up to and say, okay, it&#8217;s possible. There she is. She comes from Umlazi, KZN, and there she is. She s made it. So can I.SIKI MGABADELI: That s Lindani Dhlamini, co-founder and CEO of SekelaXabiso. A very inspirational story there that she is sharing with us, and may we have many more like her in South Africa.