The unintended consequences of globalisation, such as the economic exclusion of people, has rendered global political uncertainty the new normal, says finance minister Pravin Gordhan. Political uncertainty is the new new normal in the world &#8211; the question is how we deal with it. And ours, relatively speaking, is minor compared to the world trends that are developing, he said.Briefing media ahead of the annual World Economic Forum meeting in Davos in January 2017, he said Team South Africa &#8211; comprising government, business and labour &#8211; has made great progress in spite of domestic political noise .Team South Africa, which has taken the responsibility and co-responsibility of keeping the economic ship going and building on the good things that it has accomplished, has not only got through a year with lots of political noise but become stronger too, he said. The one thing that we must be very frank [about] is that those good things are not scalable at this point. In other words, they are not at a scale level to be seen in the GDP numbers. We are a very aware of that as the department, he said.Having delivered investment grade ratings from Moody s and Fitch, he said Team South Africa will concentrate on driving growth. The focus is on growth. If you change the growth number in South Africa &#8211; that s the denominator of GDP growth, deficit growth and trade growth &#8211; change the denominator and all of our ratios change. Our singular purpose as a country is first to get the growth, [then] make it more inclusive, restructure our economy, get more competition going and give the black community &#8211; which is still largely marginalised from the economy &#8211; much more opportunities structurally to participate in the economy in a meaningful way, he said.The rise of populism globally &#8211; exemplified by the Brexit referendum, the outcome of the US election and possibility of Front National s Marine Le Pen winning the upcoming French presidential election &#8211; means that South Africa must create more opportunities for growth at home, adds minister of economic development Ebrahim Patel. We have got to create our own tailwinds and navigate the global headwinds, he said.He said Team South Africa would highlight the practical steps being taken to boost economic growth and attract investment at the Davos meeting.Such steps include government s commitment to spend R987 billion on improving energy, water and logistics and social infrastructure over the next three years, creating a more open competitive economy and collaboration in labour market on a national minimum wage and strike processes. We recognise that investment is about confidence, that is why we have been working with government and labour to create that confidence so that we can invest and get growth, create jobs, run profitable businesses, get returns for our shareholders and pay taxes, said Jabu Mabuza, the chairman of Telkom and the joint co-ordinator of the President s CEO Initiative.