Global markets were thrown into disarray as early results from the U.S. election raised the possibility that Donald Trump will prevail over Hillary Clinton in the race for the presidency, shocking traders who had focused on polls in recent days showing the opposite.Panicked traders rushed to unwind bets they piled into over the last two days amid predictions Clinton would sweep to victory. Futures on the S&amp;P 500 plunged more than 4% and Mexico s peso &#8212; which tends to weaken as Trump s prospects improve &#8212; sank by the most in two decades. U.S. Treasuries, the yen and gold all soared by the most since Britain s shock vote to leave the European Union sent shockwaves through markets in late June.A Trump victory, buttressed by electoral gains from Florida to North Carolina, had been portrayed by analysts as having the potential to unhinge markets that had banked on a continuation of policies that coincided with the second-longest bull market in S&amp;P 500 history. Brexit was the last major political shock and led to the S&amp;P 500 sliding 5.3% in two days. With more votes being counted and it looking more and more like Trump will actually get in, the market s having a massive dive, said Karl Goody, a private wealth manager at Shaw and Partners Ltd. in Sydney, which oversees about A$10 billion ($7.6 billion). This has caught a lot of people off guard. We re all very surprised. Most polls showed Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton ahead of Trump going into the vote and websites that took bets on the victor had put the Democrat s odds of winning at 80% or more. Trump pledged to clamp down on immigration to the U.S. and renegotiate free-trade agreements with countries including Mexico.Among key moves:* S&amp;P 500 Index futures slide 4.5%* MSCI Asia Pacific Index drops 2.4%, most since Brexit* Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index falls 0.1%* Mexican peso tumbles as much as 11%, breaching 20 per dollar for first time * Japanese yen climbs 3.2%* Gold jumps 3.4%* Crude oil slides 3.2%* 10-year U.S. Treasury yield drops 12 basis points to 1.73%, lowest in a monthS&amp;P 500 Index futures were nearing the maximum 5% drop permitted on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange before trading curbs are triggered. The restrictions last came into force in the wake of the Brexit vote and set a floor price for the contracts through the remainder of the overnight trading session. Trading volumes for the December contracts were about 20 times the average level for this time of day, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Trump is getting a greater portion of the results than the polls showed going into tonight, said Chad Morganlander, a money manager at Stifel, Nicolaus &amp; Co. in Florham Park, New Jersey, where he helps oversee about $172 billion. This is going to be a long night and investors should be prepared for a tremendous amount of market instability over the next several hours. The walloping in stocks will test the reliability of hedges built up over the last month as the election neared. Some of the biggest were tied to swings in the CBOE Volatility Index, the options-derived gauge of market stress which saw its longest streak of gains ever last week. Volume in VIX futures have been at or close to records in past weeks, a sign institutional investors took steps to mitigate a potential plunge. Hedges are pretty tricky when it s such a binary outcome of results, meaning that the initial reaction for a Trump victory was clearly going to create some volatility around the equity market, said Mark Heppenstall, chief investment officer of Penn Mutual Asset Management which oversees $20 billion. It s always hard to have effective hedges when there are expected outcomes. 2016 Bloomberg