Gold tumbled to the lowest in more than five months after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen signalled the central bank may raise interest rates soon, and as climbing global bond yields reduced the appeal of bullion.The metal for immediate delivery dropped as much as 0.9 percent to $1,205.71 an ounce, the lowest level since May 31, and traded at $1,207.60 by 3:37 p.m. in Singapore, according to Bloomberg generic pricing. The metal is down 1.6 percent this week after a 5.9 percent loss last week, the most in more than three years, after Donald Trump s shock win in the U.S. presidential election.Gold has plunged as investors digested the implications of Trump s policies, which may boost the economy and lead to higher borrowing costs. In her first public statement since the election, Yellen told lawmakers on Thursday that the Fed is close to raising rates as the economy continues to gain traction. Reports Thursday showed U.S. housing starts jumped to a nine-year high in October, while jobless claims fell to the lowest level in four decades. Rising bond yields and a stronger dollar are also weighing on gold, which doesn t pay interest. People don t like having gold under a rising interest rate environment, Bob Takai, chief executive officer and president of Sumitomo Corp. Global Research Co., said by phone from Tokyo. If you think about what Mr. Trump is going to do in his new economic policy, it is very, very inflationary, the interest rate is most likely to rise, and the dollar is most likely to rise too. And under that kind of circumstance, gold is going to be the biggest victim. Still, Takai cautioned against selling all gold holdings as geopolitical risks could increase on the back of the uncertainty surrounding Trump s global policies. You need to have gold as an insurance under the geopolitical risk exposure, he said.Investors have been exiting gold. Holdings in bullion-backed exchange-traded funds dropped 8.5 metric tons to 1,940.6 tons as of Thursday, the lowest since July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.In China, bullion of 99.99 percent purity declined 1 percent to 270.70 yuan a gram ($1,222 an ounce) on the Shanghai Gold Exchange. On the Shanghai Futures Exchange, gold for June delivery lost 1.1 percent to 273.45 yuan a gram, while silver dropped 0.9 percent to 4,101 yuan a kilogram. Spot silver fell 0.3 percent, palladium dropped 0.6 percent, while platinum was little changed. 2016 Bloomberg L.P 