World markets were wildly volatile following the announcement that republican nominee Donald Trump had won the US election.US stock futures plunged, stocks in London, Hong Kong and Japan tumbled as markets opened, as did those in Australia and New Zealand. However, stocks recovered slightly later in the day as markets digested the news.At the same time safe haven investments like gold strengthened suggesting an investor flight to safety. Volatility will be the order of the day, says Zain Wilson, an investment analyst at Old Mutual s MacroSolutions boutique.That s because markets don t like uncertainty and while a Clinton presidency would broadly involve a continuation of current economic policy, the new president is a political outsider with many unknowns starting with his political appointments and his trade policies. What we do know that he is in favour of fiscal stimulus lower taxes and greater government investment, says Wilson. For instance, Trump plans to tackle those US companies that have made use of global tax loopholes and have an estimated $2 trillion parked offshore. These include companies like Microsoft, GE, Apple, IBM, Google and Cisco, according to Seeking Alpha.He has also promised the biggest tax revolution since Ronald Reagan, pledging that no American business would pay more than 15% of their profits in tax, compared with a current maximum of 35%.It remains to be seen whether he enjoys enough support within his own party to push these changes through, Wilson says. The Republicans are not supportive of debt and further state-led spending. It is not clear where he will get the money from, particularly if he plans to cut taxes. However, if Trump is able to implement some of the reforms it should be inflationary and better for growth in a country that is already on a more secure economic footing. In addition to job growth, which has a consumer-driven multiplier effect on the economy, infrastructure projects may benefit companies across the materials, industrials, and technology sectors.A Trump presidency could also challenge the core assumption that the Fed will raise interest rates soon. This means the global search for yield may be strengthened in the short term.All of this is significant for both global economic trends and for SA&#8217;s growth prospects. The rand will benefit from a weaker dollar and vice-versa, as there is an established reciprocal relationship between the dollar and the SA currency. But it could point to a period of renewed high volatility for rand.The flip side of Trump s plans to revive the economy are his views on trade (or rather his antipathy towards global trade), which could alter the path to growth for multi-national corporations, casting doubt into many investors minds about the sustainability of market resiliency. A Trump win was predicted as being negative for trade and particularly bad for emerging markets, which are leveraged for trade, Wilson says. What remains to be seen is where the new administration will focus their efforts and how the policies will take shape. Our role as active managers is to discern where these potential impacts might create risks and opportunities for our clients, says Ed Perks, CIO, Franklin Templeton Equity.The sectors potentially facing regulatory changes or systematic government policy changes may be most subject to impacts by the new administration. The one that comes to mind is health care. Many drug companies within the health care sector have been under pressure on concerns that a new administration could take steps to rationalise drug pricing, which could negatively affect pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.The economic impacts on an emerging economy like SA of a Trump Presidency are more difficult to assess, but will ultimately generate cross currents the strength of which which cannot yet be predicted with accuracy, adds Professor Raymond Parsons, professor at the North West University Potchefstroom Business School.The first step is not to panic. Brexit taught us that buying shares in the initial sell off is a good strategy, as the market initially overreacts, and that investors should not believe forecasts, illustrated by the weak markets going into the election, concludes Peter Brooke, head of Old Mutual s MacroSolutions boutique.