SIKI MGABADELI: We are focusing now on the internet infrastructure across the African continent, speaking to the MD of Accenture Digital. That s Lee Naik. Lee, thanks so much for your time today.Mobile has really dominated a lot of the conversation around connectivity on the continent. So, overall, how would you characterise the state of internet infrastructure on the continent?LEE NAIK: Siki it&#8217;s actually a great question because there are two ways to answer it. In one regard, from a mobile perspective, we are larger than in Africa. A lot of the connectivity we have and use is based on mobile infrastructure merely because we&#8217;ve struggle to get copper and fibre into the ground over all these years. And what we&#8217;ve found over the last few years is many of the countries are starting to move into 4G technology or 4G Advanced, LTE Advanced, which is a much faster grade of technology. And I guess we&#8217;ve seen that mobile commerce has kind of been the way to connect, with customers unaware of what the big investment has been.Also, when you talk about the fibre infrastructure we have in South Africa a lot of investment has been made in putting fibre into the ground, not just with Telkom, but in many other providers.And what we&#8217;ve seen at an Africa level is that in the last five years the fibre network has literally doubled. So double in five years in terms of connecting countries, connecting all the metros. However, it&#8217;s probably worth noting, Siki, that the challenge still remains in what we call the last mile, connecting the man in the street, the man at his house, with this wonderful underlying infrastructure.SIKI MGABADELI: So how do we get that right and it is, as you say, that last mile?LEE NAIK: Absolutely. The challenge we find in the last mile is that in many countries across Africa there is still a challenge in terms of access to spectrum. Now we know that in South Africa there has been a large conversation around the national ICT White Paper, where government is trying to create open-access network. We&#8217;ve found that in other places like Rwanda, similar sharing of network is starting to happen among public sector and private sector.So in one regard government is trying to create a network that spans much further distances from a coverage perspective, enabling both the urban metro areas as well as the rural provinces that we have, in the second part, the last mile, there are many players that are starting to come into it on starting to connect up the last mile. South Africa in many regards is better off than many of the other countries where some of the other countries incumbent providers control the last mile, and it&#8217;s much harder for businesses wanting to expand into Africa to tap into that space.So the answer is that it&#8217;s not completely there. It&#8217;s till quite difficult to get the last mile. South Africa is a bit more fortunate. We do expect improvements to happen to kick this forward.SIKI MGABADELI: And who s investing? I think it&#8217;s interesting that one of the things that you ve said is that half of the live 72 4G networks across Africa have been launched in just the last two years.LEE NAIK: That s right. Investment is happening across the board. I think in almost all the major networks whether it&#8217;s MTN or Vodacom or Orange there is investment happening across all the key stakeholders across Africa. And what you ve said is quite an amazing stat, that half of these networks have literally been in the last two years. I guess the question to ask is: what does it mean for service delivery, because ultimately what&#8217;s the greater purpose?I guess the point I made earlier Africa is known for technologies like M-Pesa, where in Kenya it&#8217;s allowed people to not just communicate but to share and transact. I think in many regards what connectivity allows us to do as government and companies is it allows us to come up with new constructs and new business models that are very African-specific to allow us to deliver services in new ways.SIKI MGABADELI: Are some countries better than others at creating the right environment?LEE NAIK: Well, the answer is yes. One of the key things to talk about is which of the countries are starting to come into their own. Over the last few years we&#8217;ve heard these countries names come up a few times the likes of Rwanda, Ghana, Kenya. These are starting to develop as hubs for e-commerce and e-government. So Rwanda, Kenya, Uganda stand out. And our neighbours in Lesotho are not far off in terms of the quality of the internet they provide. What I can tell you, though, if you look at the commitment investment, is that right now Kenya has the highest in terms of connectivity from a fibre perspective. But as South Africa, if you look at our plan between now and 2021, we are going to grow by 73%.So it clearly indicates, in that way, at a fibre level, which is a good indication of the future quality of our networks, South Africa will make the largest investment across all countries in Africa.SIKI MGABADELI: You mentioned the shortage of spectrum. What are we going to do about that?LEE NAIK: Well, there are a couple of ways. One way is to find a way to get the entire digital TV migration project happening. And if you don t know this, one of the key reasons why people want to migrate onto digital, TV s one. We do get better quality from a television perspective.But secondly it does free up much needed spectrum and many of the telcos will tell you that they are busy organising and arranging for some of the networks they need, but they are struggling with spectrum. And that s become a challenge not just for South Africa, but across most countries in Africa from a licensing cost, or duplication of licensing, all the way to the cost of deployment.One of the interesting developments, Siki, is what the World Radiocommunication Conference seeks to do in 2019. What they basically want to do is for them to find a way to identify new spectrum for 3G and 4G that allows countries, while they embark on their DTP migration process, to have additional spectrum to allow the telco networks to kind of get better coverage throughout the country.So I would say it&#8217;s a combination of countries fast-tracking their digital switch-overs, No 1, and No 2, the likes of the large conference in 2019 coming around, where it seeks to identify spectrum for African countries to have better coverage for the telcos in balance with the switchover happening.SIKI MGABADELI: Goodness, we need to do that, don t we: thanks for your time today, Lee Naik.