Market watchers are not worried about the decision by mobile operator Cell C to ditch its R8.5 billion planned bond placement to reduce its crippling debt load of R20.7 billion.Prepaid technology specialist Blue Label Telecoms, which is in the process of buying a 45% stake in Cell C, was informed by the company that it plans to reduce its debt without the bond placement.Cell C s management were on a roadshow in London during October to drum up support for its planned $600 million bond placement or R8.5 billion in rand terms at the time, to recapitilise its balance sheet. The planned bond placement was nearly 40% of Blue Label s market capitalisation (R13.7 billion at the time of writing).In October, Blue Label announced that it will acquire a 45% stake in South Africa s third-largest mobile operator for R5.5 billion instead of the initial 35% in December as part of the company s recapitalisation. Upping its stake in Cell C fuelled market speculation that it might make a bid for an even higher stake in future. The conditions for the deal to be consummated included that Cell C must have debt of no more than R8 billion. This requirement still sticks.Blue Label recently revealed Cell C s results which show that the company s net debt stood at R20.7 billion compared with R14.3 billion in 2014.Payment solutions technology company Net1 UEPS also participated in the Blue Label-Cell C transaction by acquiring a stake of roughly 15% in the former. Although it is unclear how Cell C plans to reduce its debt without the bond placement, it is understood that further details will be unveiled at Blue Label s AGM on November 16.Cell C hadn t responded to Moneyweb s request for comment at the time of publishing.Allan Gray s investment analyst Rory Kutisker-Jacobson says from a Blue Label shareholder perspective, the mobile operator s announcement has a minimal to zero impact on the Cell C deal [with Blue Label]. Raising debt doesn t reduce debt in a business per se. What has changed is the anticipated mix of debt holders post the recapitalisation. Presumably, the intention of the bond placement was to use that debt to repay the existing debt holders. i.e. transfer the debt from one counterparty to another. This will no longer be the case, says Kutisker-Jacobson. Allan Gray is a shareholder in Blue Label.For Mark Ansley, a portfolio manager at Argon Asset Management, he doesn t see a problem with Cell C achieving its debt reduction target without a bond placement. We would assume that Blue Label will waive this condition, provided that Cell C achieve their target in a sensible and non-compromising way, says Ansley.Cell C s recapitalisation programme (expected to be finalised in mid-November 2016) will result in a shareholding structure change with management and staff of Cell C expected to subscribe for 25% of the issued capital and 3C Telecommunications subscribing for new equity to hold the remaining 30% of the total issued share capital.Prior to Cell C s bond placement withdrawal, ratings agency Moody s placed Cell C s B3 rating under review and was looking to assign a B2 rating on its proposed notes to raise capital. A B3 rating is typically regarded as non-investment grade.Any upgrade of its rating hinged on the successful implementation of its recapitalisation, which was expected to include a R16 billion injection on its balance sheet from new and existing shareholders and a further R8.5 billion from the bond placement, which was expected to reduce Cell C s debt to R8.5 billion.