JOHANNESBURG Improving the quality of education in South Africa was key to unlocking the country s economic growth potential, a world-renowned economist has argued.Speaking on globalisation at the Old Mutual Corporate Wisdom Forum, Jeffrey Sachs, professor of economics and leader in sustainable development, said education was the single most important determinant of future economic growth.South Africa was spending a lot of money on education, but was not getting quality results yet. Addressing this issue was key to igniting economic growth, he argued. It is the reason why South Africa has not diversified its export base, why this is still a commodity exporting country (or processed commodities) because a fully diversified economy requires a much higher skill level than the average available in the workforce. His comments come at a time when the South African economy is predicted to grow a mere 0.5%, while the debate around education largely focuses on access.Economists have studied schooling for quite some time and considered whether the number of years spent in school predicated economic growth levels. It didn t make a significant difference.But when the years of schooling were adjusted by the quality of schooling measured in terms of an internationally comparable test called PISA, a programme to compare achievement, the correlation was undeniable.The chart below shows test scores of various countries on the horizontal axis, and the economic growth rates on the vertical axis. South Africa has the second lowest test score of the countries included in the comparison. Only Peru did worst.Source: Jeffrey Sachs Who is growing at superstar rates up in the upper right hand quadrant? Singapore, Taiwan, Korea, China [these countries have] excellence in schooling and high economic growth, Sachs said.The UN now predicts that Africa s population of roughly 1 billion people would reach almost 4 billion by 2100 (its so-called medium forecast).Sachs said population growth in Africa remains out of control and warned that the continent could not develop sustainably with nearly 4 billion people.The overwhelming issue is that girls are not enabled to stay in school long enough, to delay marriage, enter the labour market and to choose to have two children rather than five or six. This is really important and it is another reason why education is so fundamentally core to ending poverty and achieving sustainable development in Africa. To make globalisation work, the number one, two and three priorities for South Africa were education, Sachs said, with the quality of governance and public investment at number four and five respectively.JP Landman, economic advisor for Asgisa, said South Africa spent a lot of money on education by any global standard. We all know the problem is quality and to be quite frank we also know what the problem with quality is. The elephant in the room that we don t talk about is the Democratic Teacher s Union and the grip that they ve got on the appointment of principals, on the appointment of teachers, and the fact that they are completely and wholly against any form of evaluation. Now I don t think you can build a proper education system without rigorous evaluation. That is the elephant in the room that we ve got to address and if we can sort that out I think the rest will follow, Landman said.Professor of Public Policy at the University of Oxford, Mthuli Ncube, said South Africa should focus on the quality of education but also on access. Drop-out rates remained high.Ncube said the type of education should also be considered, whether it should be purely academic or include vocational education. It was also important to manage the educated people in a country in the right way.