The South African merger review system has been lauded as a highly effective instrument in the enforcement of competition policy.The Competition Commission and the Competition Tribunal have reviewed thousands of mergers over the past 17 years and this review process has undeniably prevented anti-competitive market structures and negative public interest effects, to the benefit of the South African public.However, with the benefit of 17-years of experience, it is questionable whether this instrument can be lauded as efficient. An efficient merger regime is one where the correct decisions are made or outcomes are achieved, at the lowest direct and indirect costs, to the optimum benefit of society, using the minimum resources. In an efficient system, every resource is optimally allocated and none are wasted. A merger regime that produces the correct regulated outcome, within an appropriate timeframe, and at the lowest possible cost, is an efficient one. Furthermore, an efficient merger regime is also transparent, consistent and predictable, so stakeholders have a measure of regulatory certainty.Under the South African merger regime, mergers are categorised as small, intermediate or large based only on the value of the merging parties turnover and assets. No regard is given to the complexity of the merger analysis required to determine the effect of the merger on competition and the public interest.Mergers falling into the &#8216;small&#8217; and &#8216;intermediate&#8217; merger categories must be decided within 60-business days from the date of filing. The Commission thus has only 60-business days within which to investigate and analyse the effects of a small or intermediate merger on competition and the public interest, and to arrive at and execute its decision to approve, approve subject to conditions or prohibit a small or intermediate merger.While 60-business days is ample time to conduct and finalise an investigation into a non-complex merger, it is commonly accepted that it is near impossible to conduct and finalise a proper investigation and analysis into the competitive and public interest effects of mergers in certain markets. This includes mergers that have competitive effects in complex or concentrated markets or where the merging parties hold significant market power. Furthermore, crafting appropriate and workable conditions, should remedies be required to address any negative effects, is also a time-intensive exercise.Insufficient time to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the effects of certain mergers may lead to incorrect decisions to approve or prohibit the merger, or inappropriate conditions. Furthermore, to have the outcomes of these decisions amended is not a seamless continuation of the Commission s investigative period (as with the Commission s recommendation to the Tribunal in the case of a large merger). In fact, it requires a new process for the Tribunal to consider afresh the effects of a merger but without the discipline of strict timelines. In addition, since the Commission has concluded its investigation into the effects of the merger, its role in this process is not that of the investigative body. Rather, the Commission often stands in an adversarial position to the merging parties. Reconsiderations of small and intermediate mergers are mostly time and resource intensive.In large mergers, the Commission investigates the effects of the merger on competition and the public interest and then makes a recommendation to the Tribunal for adjudication. The Commission s investigation period is effectively unlimited if the merging parties agree to extensions. The Tribunal s adjudication process requires a public hearing in which trade unions and other third parties may participate either informally or formally as intervenors with certain rights such as access to the merger record, discovery, leading of evidence and cross-examination of other witnesses. This participation by third parties can be hugely beneficial, as it allows for the voluntary submission and thorough scrutiny of third party evidence and the outcomes of the Commission s investigation. Generally, this process allows for better decision-making. The large merger process that separates the roles of the Commission and Tribunal, and allows for third-party participation in the adjudicative process, is considered highly effective to deal with complex merger cases.However, the result of the current categorisation of mergers is that non-complex large mergers, with an effectively unlimited review period, are subject to a mandatory and resource-intensive public hearing before the Tribunal, while the Commission must investigate and decide on complex small and intermediate mergers within a relatively short time, which cannot be extended and, therefore, impacts the quality of decisions, and without the benefit of a public hearing. This is representative of an inefficient process. The process of a public hearing for non-complex large mergers wastes the competition authorities scarce resources. These should rather be deployed to deal with complex small and intermediate mergers.The merger review process could be overhauled to require that complexity dictates process and timelines while the size of parties only dictates filing fees. The categorisation of mergers should be the function of the Commission post-filing. Upon receipt of a merger filing, the Commission could, within a short period, conduct a screening or preliminary review of the filing, and determine whether the merger will likely have a negative impact on public interest or competition.If the Commission s preliminary view is that the merger is not likely to lead to negative outcomes, it could be categorised as a phase 1 , non-complex merger that follows a fast-track procedure whereby the Commission could choose whether or not to conduct a high level investigation. The time period allowed to review phase 1 mergers should be tight so resources can be diverted from non-complex transactions. Importantly, should it transpire that a transaction has been misrepresented, and is not a phase 1 merger, or the Commission receives objections to the merger that are not frivolous, it should have the power to recategorise the merger. To aid the expeditious participation by any third parties, the merger filing should contain a non-confidential summary of the merger, and its competitive and public interest effects, prepared by the merging parties that can be published on the Commission s website.If the Commission is of the view that a merger requires in-depth analysis, or that it would likely lead to negative public interest or competitive effects (in other words, it comprises a phase 2 complex merger), it should be assessed and adjudicated in line with the current large merger procedures, regardless of the size of the merging parties. This investigation period is not constricted by any statutory time limit and third parties may participate in proceedings.The result of these proposals (which would require legislative amendment) would be more likely to produce the correct outcomes for complex small and intermediate mergers, would streamline the process and decrease the timeframe for non-complex large mergers. Only complex mergers would involve a public hearing before the Tribunal. Also, the time period to review and adjudicate a merger is appropriate for the complexities involved. The amendments would divert the competition authorities resources away from non-complex mergers to complex ones, an efficient outcome in itself.A further result of the amendments is that prohibitions and conditional approvals (on the basis that these outcomes would only arise in complex mergers) would all be the subject of tribunal orders.The differentiated treatment of complex versus non-complex mergers is not a novel idea. The merger regimes of, among others, the US and the European Union, provide for a simplified merger notification and clearance process for mergers that are unlikely to raise competition concerns.The amendments mentioned would further enhance the effectiveness of the South African merger regime, and would ensure the efficient allocation of resources of both the merging parties and the competition authorities.Blignaut is an Executive, Ntshingila an Associate and Hobson-Jones a Candidate Attorney in the Anti-trust/Competition Practice, ENSafrica(This article first appeared in Without Prejudice, DealMakers sister publication) 