The world may be transitioning towards a macro-policy mix incorporating both monetary and fiscal stimulus measures. These global macro-economic developments are expected to continue to affect and largely determine market outcomes for the foreseeable future. Be vigilant.Since the 2008 Great Financial Crisis (GFC) central banks have found themselves unable to use traditional monetary policy tools to stimulate or reflate the economy effectively, leading them to experiment with unconventional monetary policy measures. These measures have exerted unprecedented and extraordinary influence on financial markets around the world which appear to be the main beneficiary of the unusual global economic cycle that has been created.There is now increasing concern from many quarters of the globe that central bank monetary policy has overstayed its usefulness in terms of economic impact. This is because despite unprecedented low interest rates and ultra-loose monetary policy, growth generally remains weak or sub-par and fragile, while inflation objectives have yet to be realised. In contrast, it has generally been argued that central bank policies have rather led to inflation of financial asset prices.Central bank monetary policy has also led to unforeseen consequences such as the proliferation of negative interest rates on an unprecedented scale with negative consequences for savers, banks, insurers and pension funds alike. Furthermore, market pricing signals have been impacted and distorted, if not impaired, by macro policy measures such that they have been rendered largely ineffective compared to previous normal or typical business cycles. Ultra-low interest rates have caused misallocations of capital that have been a drag on growth and led to even lower interest rates.Ongoing speculation about major central bank policy decisions and direction creates uncertainty and thus nervousness in the market. This is apparent from ongoing risk on/off market sentiment fluctuations, and especially the reaction to a potential interest rate hike by the US Federal Reserve. A tightening of Fed policy, and thus of global US dollar liquidity conditions, will impact markets around the globe. US monetary policy is and remains a significant factor in global financial affairs given the greenback s dominance in trade and commerce.No more &#8216;free&#8217; in free markets?It is clear from the above that the aftermath of the GFC has been anything but normal given the sheer dominance of central bank policy measures and interventions in markets. The free in free markets has effectively been compromised as interventions are centrally orchestrated to target certain desired economic and market outcomes.Respected economist Stephen Roach (former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia and the firm s chief economist but now a senior fellow at Yale) made the following fitting comment:While financial markets love any form of monetary accommodation, there can be no mistaking its dark side. Asset prices are being manipulated across the board stocks and bonds, long- and short-duration assets, as well as currencies. As a result, savers are being punished, the cost of capital is repressed, and reckless risk taking is being encouraged in an income-constrained climate. This is especially treacherous terrain for economies desperately in need of productivity-enhancing investment. And it is not dissimilar to the environment of asset-based excess that incubated the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. (Desperate Central Bankers, originally published at Project Syndicate, September 26, 2016)Some pundits believe that central banks have entered uncharted territory. Indeed, there is a perception that they may have become omnipotent, insofar that they now have the power to prevent negative economic outcomes and orchestrate positive ones (such as improved employment, averting of deflationary forces and supporting financial asset prices).It is indeed unusual that crisis-induced policy measures have remained largely in place for around eight years and counting. This perhaps tells us that what has transpired over this period is not the usual business cycle.What the ultimate outcome and consequences may be, only time will tell. If confidence in central banks fails, markets have the potential to react violently.Transition towards a macro-policy mix?A key question at this juncture is to what extent central banks still have ammunition to sustain the course until a self-sustainable and virtuous economic growth cycle is established whilst stimulating the much hoped for inflation.The global economy is struggling under a major debt burden, while monetary policy has been stretched to its limits everywhere. As this realisation dawns, fiscal policy and in particular public spending on infrastructure &#8211; is increasingly mooted as a potential solution to ensure sustainability of economic growth. Infrastructure investment will, however, be of little benefit to countries with very stretched total gross (including financial) debt to GDP ratios as these countries have reached levels where additional debt contributes less and less &#8211; or even ceases &#8211; to raise per capita GDP.However, there is as yet no great willingness or urgency among policymakers to initiate the necessary fiscal action to bolster the risk of fading monetary stimulus. Maybe only a crisis situation will trigger this as large-scale stimulus packages have tended to be passed during economic downturns.But then again, the nature of fiscal policy intervention and the level of indebtedness of individual governments will determine the extent to which fiscal measures are taken and what the focus will be. In this regard it is interesting to note research by Ludger Schuknecht and Vito Tanzi for the European Central Bank. They concluded that expenditure reform (with a reduction in the size of government) in 22 industrialised countries coincided with an improvement not only in fiscal and economic indicators, but also in human development and institutional indicators. This could be instructive for the type of fiscal policies adopted.Regardless, it appears that the world may be headed for a transition towards an effective macro-policy mix, incorporating both prevailing monetary policy efforts and fiscal stimulus measures. This would impact both the economy and asset markets. We believe that markets will essentially remain captive to macro dynamic forces which will tend to trump micro economic drivers. It will be important to keep an eye on macro developments. Fabian de Beer is director: investments, at Mergence Investment Managers