The use of digital debit order management services, offered by First National Bank (FNB) and Absa, is quickly gaining traction among customers.FNB has noted an 87% migration of debit order disputes and stop payments to digital channels within three months of introducing the service &#8211; which allows customers to dispute and place stop payments on what appear to be unauthorised debit orders amounting to less than R200 &#8211; via its online banking, app and cellphone banking platforms, said Ryan Prozesky, CEO of Value Solutions at FNB.He said the majority of disputes reported by its customers are via cellphone banking, a positive trend as cellphone banking is available on all mobile phone types.Absa, the first of the big four banks to introduce the functionality in October 2015, has also seen an increase in usage among its customers. Its digital service allows customers up to 40 days to reverse unauthorised debit orders and receive an immediate refund, as well as stop debit orders from going off their accounts in future. On average, Absa receives 8.7 million debits &#8211; EFTs and non-authenticated early debit orders (NAEDO) &#8211; per month for processing against Absa transactional accounts with a current trend of 9.1% unpaid and 1.7% disputes, Marius de la Rey, chief executive of customer channels, distribution and coverage at Absa Barclays Africa retail and business banking.Ombudsman for Banking Services Clive Pillay previously told Moneyweb that disputed debit order complaints to his office increased by 54% over the past year. Data from the Payments Association of South Africa (PASA) shows that an average of 31 million debit orders amounting to R72 billion are processed per month, of which 1.2 million are unpaid and 170 000 are disputed. Both banks introduced the functionality in a bid to empower customers and curb debit order abuse through non-mandated debit order collections. Not everyone checks their accounts on a regular basis, so by immediately notifying customers that a debit order has taken place on their account as well as the amount and the service provider name, customers can quickly act if they perceive the transaction to be unauthorised, Prozesky said of FNB s debit order transaction notifications. According to de la Rey, it is not possible to clearly identify all unauthorised or scam transactions in the processing system, which work across all the banks and the two different payment streams. We urge customers to become more vigilant about protecting their personal information when managing their day-to-day and monthly tasks such as the payment of debit orders, he said. Customers who dispute debit orders in order to manage cash flow run the risk of losing out on policy pay-outs in the event of a claim, he warned. He added that an inconsistent payment history or high dispute ratio in a person s bank account may negatively impact that person s risk profile. Although banks act on debit order disputes on behalf of their customers, customers must contact service providers directly to make alternate payment arrangements or terminate contracts, Prozesky said.A Nedbank spokesperson told Moneyweb that the banking is working on offering its clients online debit order management facilities, however no confirmed date has been set for implementation.