I think we ll all end the year with a sense that something shifted in 2016.We saw ordinary people in Germany, the UK and the US vote to strengthen their borders and protect their turf, despite their leaders exporting the hope of a more inclusive future. In the wake of Donald Trump s stunning victory, commentators and nay-sayers are coming to terms with the reality that people are angry , they feel left-out , dis-affected , dis-enfranchised .In our own country the surprising rise of the Economic Freedom Front (EFF), coupled with the ANC s loss of the major metros, shook South Africa into the same realisation. People are angry. And, with South Africa displaying among the highest levels of class inequality in the world, it s no wonder we re experiencing revolt.It s this anger, I think, that has motivated several moves by the minister of economic development Ebrahim Patel, to get his hands dirty and negotiate spin-off deals with merging companies that aim to benefit classes of people that would otherwise be excluded or negatively affected by mergers.Examples include:(1) the Anheuser-Busch InBev / SABMiller deal earlier this year, in which the merging firms agreed with the Economic Development Department (EDD) that they would set aside R1 billion over five years for the development of the South African agricultural outputs for barley, hops and maize and for promoting the entry of emerging black farmers;(2) the SABMiller / Coca-Cola deal earlier this year, where the merging firms agreed with EDD to set aside R800 million to support small businesses;(3) the 2014 international merger between AgriGroupe Holdings and local agricultural commodity trading company, AFGRI, in which the merging firms agreed to make available loan funding for emerging farmers and provided for the continuation of benefits to small farmers which existed before the merger; and of course,(4) the 2011 Walmart / Massmart merger, which drew non-merger commitments from the merging firms as a result of EDD and other government department interventions. Here the EDD led a government request that a supplier development fund be set aside for the benefit of emerging suppliers. Through court proceedings this amount was eventually set at R200 million.In his recent talk at the Law Society breakfast an annual meeting of competition practitioners from around the country Patel again defended these deals and hinted at further measures to strengthen South Africa s competition laws.At first I questioned if this wasn t a dangerous precedent that the minister had set a precedent that made it look like foreign firms had to pay a merging tax for the benefit of doing business in South Africa. But these world events, the questions analysts are now asking about what the truth really is and the growing voice of frustration in our own electorate, have me changing my mind.If you don t live in the world of the disaffected, it s easy to keep policies in silos: to expect the labour laws to take care of labour issues, investment rules to guide investment and every man s conscience to dictate his level of community involvement. The silent voice of dissent all over the world is saying that none of that really matters. In the end it seems everyone wants decent work, good pay, stable living conditions and real opportunities for their children. They want in on the pie of good fortune that too few of the world s population enjoy. So perhaps we are better off in a country that has developed a unique blend of capitalist principles mixed in with socialist ideals. The public interest considerations built into the Competition Act are a prime example of this mix &#8211; albeit a tense one at the best of times. These considerations require the competition agencies to consider the effect of a merger on defined categories of the public interest, in addition to its effect on the normal competition dynamics of a market.Perhaps it s a good thing for the ministry to encourage socialist-leaning conditions when a major, far-reaching merger takes places in South Africa. Perhaps the ministry is simply responsive to the growing undertone of discontent from the electorate and is doing its part to address these concerns. These are the gains the ministry can point to when the EFF supporter claims that our competition laws only push a capitalist agenda.In Patel s own words, if the State is not [responsive] and measured we lose public support and we seem to be captured by corporate interests as a state, unable to ensure that as this complex economy works its way every day that there is an appropriate balance between the interest of citizens and corporations, between producers and consumers, between employers and employees. Of course South Africa has real problems with racism, inequality, corruption and slow economic growth. But I would rather live in a country with its ear to the ground, hearing not only the elites concerns about investor confidence, but also hearing the voice of the masses who are tired of living on the fringes and responding to this voice decisively, in an open forum, as the EDD s negotiations have done.World events are teaching us that this voice can no longer be ignored.Nandi Mokoena is an admitted attorney with 15 years experience in the field of competition law. She has worked in various roles in the Competition Commission, from investigating anti-competitive conduct, to managing the commission s stakeholder relations. In the last five years she worked for the Competition Tribunal as its communications officer.