The banks enjoyed one of their best days this year on Monday following the announcement over the weekend by rating agencies Moody&#8217;s and Fitch that the country s long-term investment grade credit rating remained intact. At the close of the market on Monday, Barclays Group Africa (4.08%), Standard Bank (2.46%), Firstrand (3.29%), Nedbank (2.95%) and Capitec (2.11) had all enjoyed a good day, taking returns over the last year to well past 10% (see graph below). FTSE/JSE Banks Index (J835) over one year to November 28 2016 (rebased to 100)Source: IRESS The banks have been getting it from all angles over the last year. The deteriorating financial condition of the consumer, which has been the by-product of a rising interest rate environment and a stagnant economy, have increased the financial risks in the operating environment. Added to this are the heightened political risks created by the interventions of the President and his acolytes (including a catastrophic, yet short-lived appointment of the finance minister last December) that have all added to the environment of uncertainty. At one point in January, the banks index was down by as much as 20% from its price in late November 2015 (see graph). And finally, the threat of the country s investment grade credit rating being lowered has hung like a guillotine above the necks of the banks. As all these factors coalesced, the financial markets began to price the likelihood of a downgrade as being more likely than not. So this rally however long it lasts must be seen in the context of what the market expected leading into last Friday when the rating agencies began announcing their decisions. A note Anchor Capital sent to its clients prior to this articulates some of the markets&#8217; expectations: We believe the likelihood remains that South Africa s sovereign rating is downgraded by at least one agency in December 2016, but that this is largely priced into bond and currency markets. By extension, it is most probable that it is also factored into current equity valuations. When something bad anticipated by the market does not materialise within the timeframe it expects, short-term cheer usually follows. No surprise then that the rand and government bonds performed well on Monday too. The rand strengthened by 24 cents to the dollar (1.7%) while ten-year bond yields (R186) tightened to trade at a yield of 8.87%.USD-ZAR Intra-day exchange rate Monday November 28Source: IRESSSo enjoy it while it lasts. The decision by Standard &amp; Poor&#8217;s will be definitive. The market is very focused on the outcome of the Standard and Poor&#8217;s assessment as they are considering whether to cut our rating to junk status, says Anchor. Its decision is expected in December. Should that turn out favourably, there needs to be urgent and decisive action by the government to get the economy back on track or risk the inevitable in 2017.