Standard Bank aims to create a continental business platform, akin to an African Economic Forum complete with a transregional digital portal, to facilitate intra-African and cross border business opportunities in 2017.As the second fastest growing economy after East Asia, the continent offers a myriad business opportunities across various sectors. In its latest Africa Economic Outlook, the African Development Bank said the average real GDP growth of 3.6% registered in 2015 beat the global average of 3.1% and was more than double that of the euro area. It projects continent-wide economic growth of 3.7% in 2016 and 4.5% in 2017. As a bank, we exist because our customers exist and do well. It is in our own interest that all these economies boom, it is in own interest that all our customers do well, said Manessah Alagbaoso, Head of Commercial Banking for the Rest of Africa at Standard Bank.The banking group, which operates in 17 countries across the continent, wants to provide customers and non-customers alike with credible information and dispel the misconceptions of doing business in Africa. If you listen to the popular press, chances are you will get bad news Go there, get on the ground, engage with businesses, see what goes on and then take it from there, Alagbaoso advised delegates at Standard Bank s Africa Calling business breakfast.To help get entrepreneurs on the ground and give them a sense of the operating environment in the rest of Africa, the bank hosted transregional conferences in East and West Africa this year.He said 25 South African businesses participated in the conferences, with more and more enquiring about opportunities across the continent. South African businesses have the biggest opportunity to go into Africa in terms of resources, in terms of skills and in terms of the maturity of businesses in South Africa, he said.The bank is also planning a transregional conference in Southern Africa.Alagbaoso agreed that the North African market remains relatively unknown, at least from a South African perspective. If you look at where we are distributed across Africa, we don t have a presence in North Africa. My assumption is that it must be because of the socio-economic dynamics of North Africa, which are heavily influenced by religion. I wouldn t categorically say that it is a closed market but I see it as a market that is not 100% similar to what South African businesses are used to like in other regions of Africa, he said.He added that different languages, corruption and political risks across the continent are as large barriers to doing business as perceived. We don t pay bribes as a bank and we will not do business if the only way to do it is to pay bribes. So if your governance standard is at the right level, as a business, you don t have to compromise to go into Africa. Politically, Africa is maturing. You have free and fair elections, you have smooth transitions in power, you have the private and public sector engaging you didn t have that in the past. The dynamics are changing for the better, he said.This is sponsored by Standard Bank.