The former deputy registrar of pension funds at the Financial Services Board (FSB), Rosemary Hunter, has fought a long battle against what she perceives to be the board&#8217;s botched de-registration of thousands of local pension funds. This process, which took place between 2007 and 2013 was designed to cancel the large number of funds that had become dormant after moving their members into umbrella funds.Theoretically, these funds no longer had any assets or liabilities and so had ceased to exist. They therefore needed to be cleared off the FSB&#8217;s books.However, Hunter has consistently argued that the process followed in this project was flawed. In its desire to expedite the process, she believes, the FSB did not take proper care to ensure that all the funds it cancelled no longer owed any benefits to members who for whatever reason had yet to be paid out.In other words, she contends that there is a very good chance that many members of these funds have suffered material prejudice without knowing it.Hunter first raised her concerns soon after she took office at the FSB in late 2013 and put a stop to the cancellations project. What has followed has been years of bitter argument between herself and her former employers that exploded into the public eye when she took the matter to court in January this year.She believes that the FSB has not properly investigated her concerns and that this suggests that certain individuals there have ulterior motives. The FSB, however, contends that it has taken the matter seriously and that its review of the project is still ongoing.The tone of the affidavits filed in the case says a lot about how personal this matter has become. Unfortunately, this may have somewhat detracted from the material issues.Originally, Hunter approached the court to force the FSB to release two reports that it had commissioned into the cancellations project. She also sought a court order compelling the FSB to investigate what she believes amounts to unlawful conduct by the board&#8217;s registrar, Dube Tshidi, and other employees.Hunter has already been partly successful in that the FSB released the two reports in question when filing its responding affidavit. However, Hunter argues that this only raised more questions.As a result, she is now seeking to amend her application to ask not just for a court order that the FSB must commission a proper independent investigation, but that the court itself should supervise the process to make sure that it happens.Hunter believes this is necessary because the FSB has demonstrated that it cannot be relied upon to fulfil its constitutional obligations in relation to the cancellations project without court supervision . In her heads of argument, she argues that the board has consistently refused to accept the fact that the cancellations project was not only conducted unlawfully, it was also conducted badly .This is shown, she contends, by its unwillingness to act on the concerns she has raised, other than to do so superficially.Asking for a supervisory order from the court is, however, an extraordinary step. This kind of relief is very rarely granted.There are previous examples of courts doing this when arms of government have failed to comply with previous court orders, and it therefore became necessary for the court to ensure that its orders were in fact carried out. However, Hunter may have a challenging task convincing the court that it is appropriate in this instance. In her own heads of argument, she outlines what she will have to demonstrate: Our courts have recognised that supervisory orders are appropriate in circumstances where a systematic failure to uphold the constitutional principles of transparency and accountability is demonstrated, she notes. If circumstances indicate that, without a supervisory order, the constitutional values of accountability, responsiveness and openness may be undermined, such an order may be granted. The court is therefore being asked to determine whether the FSB&#8217;s actions so far are those of an organisation that is unwilling to take its constitutional duties seriously. That would be a very serious finding.In its heads of argument, however, the FSB argues that it cannot be faulted for its handling of Ms Hunter&#8217;s complaints . It notes that an independent investigation as to whether anyone suffered material prejudice as a result of the cancellations project is, in fact, still ongoing.Hunter, however, believes this investigation is flawed, and this backs up her argument that the FSB is not acting constitutionally.If the court agrees with her, it would be a huge blow to the image of the FSB. It would essentially be a finding that the board cannot be trusted.That would be a damning indictment of an institution that is meant to ensure ethical standards are upheld within the financial services industry. If it can&#8217;t even live up to that mandate itself, then there are very serious problems indeed.