They re entitled; they re job-hoppers; they re the narcissistic selfie generation; they are neither respectful nor patient and they want special privileges. These are some of the stereotypes of the millennial generation &#8211; those born between 1982 and 2004.Barry Vorster, the partner responsible for people and organisation at consulting group PwC, dispelled some of these myths at a recent thought leadership breakfast hosted by medical aid group Bestmed.Some of these so-called &#8216;characteristics&#8217; are simply broader trends that exist because we are living in the 21st Century. Some are myths. Others, he says are genuine characteristics of a generation that, if companies take time to understand, can be used as forces for change.It is important to understand the world that they grew up in:&nbsp;The world is changing and the people who grow up in this environment are changing with it, says Vorster. Companies need to try to understand them, to get the deal right, help them grow, give them regular feedback, set them free and let them learn.But first there are a few things that we need to understand about the future of work and living, he says.According to psychologist and academic Lynda Grattan, we face a future of longevity. The odds are at 90% that anyone under the age of 50 will live to 100 and if you are under 30 the odds rise to 110% to 120%. So it is highly likely that in the future workplace you will have generation X ers (the generation preceding millennials &#8211; they plan to work to 80), millennials and generation C (born after 2004) working together, says Vorster. There are substantial differences between the generations in their approach to work. Generation X, like me, is already sceptical about the value brought about by big corporates. But the millennials are even more sceptical. They are not in favour of a world where big company capitalism reigns supreme, globalisers take centre stage, consumer preferences dominate, and a corporate career separates the haves from the have-nots.Instead, says Vorster, they are leaning towards a world where consumers and employees force companies to develop a social conscience and green sense of responsibility. In fact, to some millennials the ultimate nirvana would be a world where global businesses fragment and technology empowers a low impact, high-tech business model. In this world networks prosper, while large companies fall.Another macro trend is that the talent pool is widening. Online study and freely-available courses such as those offered by MIT and Harvard are changing the way we think about education. In countries like Nigeria, the energy and hunger for knowledge is incredible. People want to learn. The rise of robotics and artificial intelligence is driving profound changes in valuable skills and how they are used. About 50% of today s skills won t be used in the same format by 2022. You should be asking, &#8216;could a robot take my job?&#8217; If you are an accountant there is 93% chance that you will be automated, according to research presented by the BBC. This means that people need to think about a life in which you might work, graduate, work and regraduate, says Vorster.Considering trend towards longevity, millennials are remarkably complacent about money and saving. Remuneration is not only about the bottom line, but also about tangible and intangible reward, which assume different priorities depending on life stages, says Vorster.Worryingly, the majority of millennials have not yet thought about how they will fund their retirement, with many suggesting they will continue working after retirement age particularly in developing countries. In Western Europe 61% of graduates have not yet thought about funding their retirement, while 59% of North American graduates believe they are well prepared.So with these dynamics in mind, what are millennials really like?Are they going to be loyal? Probably not, says Vorster. Unlike previous generations they expect to have two to five careers (not just jobs) in their lifetime and don t expect to be bound by any organisation or place.A work life balance is critical, as is flexibility in the way work is done. Research quoted by Vorster suggests that on average 95% of millennials believe a work balance is important, with 100% of South Africans surveyed agreeing and 85% of Japanese agreeing.When they take time off, this generation is more likely to be doing something that benefits society. In fact it is arguably the most civic-minded generation since the 1930s. This means that corporate values are extremely important and a key factor in deciding where to work, says Vorster. In our research, 59% of millennials say they have, or will seek employers whose corporate responsibility behaviour matches their own values, and 56% would consider leaving an employer who no longer met their expectations. Millennials in Hong Kong , Russia, Brazil and SA are most likely to seek employers whose CSR behaviour reflects their own values. But if there is one thing millennials prize more than anything else, it s the ability to learn and develop, says Vorster. They expect to keep on learning and spend a high proportion of their time gaining new experiences and absorbing new information.In particular, millennials value global experience as key to career development and advancement. Two thirds (66%) feel they will need to gain international experience in order to further their career.That s not all however.Millennials also value the chance to work with strong coaches and mentors. They value regular appraisals and feedback too. In an environment of instant feedback via social media, the ritual of annual appraisals does not sit well. Millennials want and expect detailed, regular feedback and praise for a job well done, says Vorster.If given a choice, they will choose training and development and flexible working hours over financial benefits such as cash bonuses, he adds.It has become fashionable to trash millennials. But if organisations take the trouble, they can make the most of their confident can-do attitudes and ability to think differently.This article was sponsored by Bestmed 