The Sygnia 4th Industrial Revolution Global Equity Fund is the first product of its kind in South Africa. It offers local investors exposure to global companies at the forefront of the 4th Industrial Revolution, which sees new technologies merging the physical, digital and biological worlds at an exponential pace.The astounding scope of these breakthroughs is set to disrupt almost every sphere of life as we know it much sooner than we think.Self-driving Ubers in Pittsburgh, Oculus Rift virtual reality games, medical diagnoses based on genome mapping, and Amazon s drone deliveries are already here. The first 3D-printed dress debuted this year at New York Fashion Week. Fitbit offers a virtual experience of running the New York City Marathon in the comfort of your gym. Costa Rica has been running on renewable energy since June this year, using a combination of hydro, geothermal, wind and solar energy instead of fossil fuels. iPhone s Siri, Amazon s Alexa and other virtual assistants are set to replace the world of apps. And much more is to come: What is the Fourth Industrial Revolution?In the short term, the largest beneficiaries of all the change will be the providers of intellectual and physical capital: the innovators and the investors. Given Sygnia s positioning as an innovative fintech market disruptor, we thought it only appropriate to be the first company in South Africa to offer local investors the opportunity to co-mingle their money with that of many of the world s greatest venture capitalists, backing companies at the leading edge of the new future.Traditional global equity funds focus on old-world manufacturing and services-oriented companies. The Sygnia 4th Industrial Revolution Global Equity Fund diversifies away from this by blending exposure to 13 different market indices, each representing a different new economy industry. The Kensho New Economy Indices are compiled by Kensho, a US big data analytics company funded by Goldman Sachs, Google Ventures, Accel Partners and CNBC, among others. Kensho uses machine-learning techniques to identify the companies that are propelling the 4th Industrial Revolution and combines them in objectively calculated market indices. Each index focuses on a different sector, including drones, robotics, space, wearables, cybersecurity, 3D printing, autonomous vehicles, nanotechnology, smart buildings, virtual reality, cleantech, genetic engineering and clean energy. Sygnia has entered into an exclusive partnership with Kensho to bring this unique product to the market.The Sygnia 4th Industrial Revolution Global Equity Fund is a domestic, rand-denominated unit trust open to retail and institutional investors. Aptly, and with some humour behind it, it is benchmarked against the S&amp;P500 Index the behemoth index that amalgamates many of the existing giants of US industry that we believe will become extinct in the next decade. The fund s management fees are set at 0.80% per annum, with a performance fee of 10% outperformance of the S&amp;P500 Index.To make the investment more meaningful and educational we plan to regularly communicate the milestones of the 4th Industrial Revolution to our investors via a dedicated newsletter and webcasts, along with biannual technology seminars in Cape Town, Johannesburg and Durban.This article is sponsored by Sygnia Asset Management 