The second-worst month of the year for emerging markets neared its end as stocks signalled a rebound from losses spurred by Donald Trump s US election victory and currencies of oil exporters trimmed November declines. Dollar-denominated bonds of developing nations headed for their biggest retreat since the so-called taper tantrum of 2013.The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose for the third time in four days, building on last week s gain. Russia s ruble and Colombia s peso advanced as OPEC was said to have clinched a deal to cut output. Investors lowered the risk premium they demand to own developing-nation bonds for the first time in five days.The turnaround in emerging-market assets comes after Trump s election as the next US president sparked a rout in global markets on expectations his spending policies would spur inflation and more frequent interest-rate increases. Some investors are now betting that the pessimism may have been overdone and the Fed s next rate move has already been factored into asset prices. The worst of the selloff is over, said Julian Mayo, who helps oversee $2 billion as co-chief investment officer at Charlemagne Capital Ltd. in London. People are now reassessing what Trump s presidency could really mean. They are taking the view that the pragmatic businessman in Trump would be a guide to what happens in the next four years and not the one who spoke in dogmatic rhetoric during the campaign. Stocks The MSCI gauge rose 0.6% to 863.36 at 8:55 a.m. in New York. The index is trading above its 200-day moving average for a seventh successive day, suggesting that it is deriving technical support from that level. That pared its November losses to 4.6%, the worst since January s 6.5%.Currencies The MSCI Emerging Markets Currency Index increased 0.1% as it headed for a 2.7% retreat this month. That s second only to its declines in May this year when hawkish statements from Fed officials halted a rally. Turkey, where the central bank s ability to fight inflation is impaired by political pressure for lower rates, and Mexico, which stands to lose if Trump follows up on his pledge to abandon a trade pact, witnessed the biggest currency losses.Bonds A Bloomberg gauge of emerging-market Eurobonds, comprising sovereign and corporate securities, was poised for a 3.3% retreat in November. That s the worst performance since June 2013 after Ben Bernanke s indication the US central bank was getting ready to reduce its monthly bond purchases. A measure of local-currency bonds dropped 4.5% in November, the biggest loss since September 2011.Oil deal Brent crude surged, breaking through $50, as OPEC was said to be near to finalising an agreement to cut supply and stabilise global markets. That helped the Colombian peso and the ruble strengthen at least 1.4%, the best showing among 24 emerging-market peers.Temer s victory Brazilian stocks rallied after President Michel Temer s plan to pull the country out of its worth recession in more than a century got a boost. Senators on late Tuesday approved a cap on public spending in real terms for up to 20 years.Valuations Developing-nation stock valuations may soon become attractive to some investors as a downtrend that started in September is taking the price-earnings ratio of the MSCI index closer to its three-year average. The gauge trades at 12 times the projected earnings of its members, compared with a mean of 11.3. It trades at a 25% discount to the MSCI World Index of developed-market stocks, compared with 29% at the start of the year.Movers Egypt s EGX 30 Index advanced 2.6% to extend its monthly gain to 37%. Stocks received a boost at the start of November when authorities freed the pound in a bid to attract foreign investors and reduce a dollar squeeze. Saudi Arabia s Tadawul All Share Index climbed 1.5%, cementing its position as the world s best-performing equity benchmark in dollar terms (not including Venezuela where stock gains are distorted because of a currency squeeze). Poland s benchmark WIG20 Index rose 1.3%, while the zloty and sovereign bonds fell as data showed zero year-on-year change in the country s consumer-price index last month, matching the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg survey The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1%, the most since September 26, as a technical indicator suggested the market is overheating India s rupee and Mexico s peso gained at least 0.4%. South Africa s rand slid 0.9%. The world s most volatile currency was the worst performer in emerging markets Wednesday. The premium investors demand to own developing-nation sovereign bonds rather than US Treasuries narrowed six basis points to 359, according to JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. indexes.Outlook for 2017 Emerging markets should do reasonably well next year, said Mayo. The asset class is still under-owned as most people are positioned negatively or completely out of it. Valuations are looking reasonable and earnings growth is slowly beginning to recover. 2016 Bloomberg L.P