A provisional liquidation order for Western Province Rugby Union for its commercial arm was only obtained this afternoonPresident Thelo Wakefield on the Union having retained expert legal and accounting advice and had fully explored all options before applying for liquidation of its commercial trading entity.WARREN DICK: Good day my name is Warren Dick from Moneyweb and joining me on the podcast today is Aletta Harrison, our correspondent from Cape Town. Good have you with us Aletta.ALETTA HARRISON: Thank you very much.WARREN DICK: You have some developments that Western Province Rugby held at the press conference today, what can you tell us?ALETTA HARRISON: Yes, this conference was announced at quite short notice and it turned out that the reason for that was a provisional liquidation order for Western Province Rugby Union for the union s commercial arm was only obtained this afternoon at 14h15. Of course there were some reports at the end of last month alluding to the fact that this might happen and the president confirmed that today.WARREN DICK: So this means that the professional arm which obviously houses all the professional players and their respective contracts, as well as, I imagine, all their income from TV rights and that kind of thing, they&#8217;re actually trying to have that liquidated as soon as possible. Is that correct?ALETTA HARRISON: That is correct. With the provisional order being granted, I did pose the question, how long until its official and it might take about eight weeks for the process to play out they ve advised me?WARREN DICK: How will it affect the game and specifically obviously the players that are contracted to Western Province Rugby both for Currie Cup and for Super Rugby?ALETTA HARRISON: One of the points that the president, Thelo Wakefield really tried to underscore that this is not going to affect the game in any way. But on the pitch it s going to be business as usual. It said for the loss of income which is obviously a result of this, they are working on turnaround strategies but they were not prepared to go into any details yet, they said they would announce further details about a month or two from now.WARREN DICK: One of the shareholders is Johann Rupert through Remgro which own SAIL and that effective ownership of this professional arm of Western Province s 24.9% as you pointed out earlier. Has there been any word from them around what the shareholders planned to do now with this development?ALETTA HARRISON: One of the questions that came up just after the press conference from the journalists here, the answer wasn t maybe rock solid and I m not sure it was well thought out but they did say that they would expect them to be involved in the future of the franchise going forward, in some way.WARREN DICK: Ok so obviously the million dollar question is why have Western Province pursued this route, why have they applied for provisional liquidation? This is quite a serious course of action to take. Obviously there are financial problems.ALETTA HARRISON: Yes Wakefield did say the decision came after they explored all of the options, including arbitration with the help of its legal team but they got the mandate from its executive and it was unanimously decided to liquidate the commercial arm. He also pre-empted the journalists here, before they had a chance to pose the question to him, saying that the liquidation was anything but a ploy and he said that he would not even be entertaining any questions pertaining to that. He said it was simply based on Western Province s financial conditions and he underlined that he believe it was in the best interests of the union.WARREN DICK: So I think we need to chase that a little bit but from the rumours that we&#8217;ve gathered there were some contractual issues with a particular party. This is probably more on the speculative side than anything Western Province Rugby told us. What did you learn about the issues with a counterparty called Aerios?ALETTA HARRISON: Obviously the official line here was that there were complex legal issues that they couldn t resolve with Aerios. We really can t speculate too much exactly what went wrong but I had a little chat with Wakefield just after the press conference and he sounded exasperated. He said from their side they tried to do their part in the relationship and they felt that they just simply couldn t proceed with this partner anymore.WARREN DICK: Anything about more detail around the contractual issues in particular around stadium branding in and around Newlands?ALETTA HARRISON: No nothing on that. I suspect that probably falls within the plans that they are working on at the moment and that they refused to divulge anything on. He said the CEO Paul Zacks was a very capable businessman and that he was working on a turnaround strategy for the Union and that they would be able to tell us more in a month or two s time.I did also pose the question in the News24 report which was published on 28 October they pointed out a couple of inaccuracies with that report. They denied that the R72m sum of money that was mentioned in there, but I did ask them about the projected loss of R11.2m which was also mentioned in the article. Zacks said that those numbers are confidential but he wouldn t exactly confirm or deny the exact figure. But he did confirm that they are expecting a substantial loss for this financial year.WARREN DICK: Ok Aletta it sounds like there&#8217;s a lot for you to follow up there and we hope to stay in touch with what s going on.ALETTA HARRISON: Great thank you.WARREN DICK: That was Aletta Harrison down in Cape Town.