Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about on today.Election dayIt&#8217;s finally here. Bloomberg Politics will keep you up to date throughout the day. Your handy hour-to-hour guide to following voting developments is here.Market reactionThe fluctuations of global markets in recent weeks along with changes in polling ahead of today&#8217;s vote clearly show that the result matters for investors. Bloomberg has compiled a cross-asset guide of the market moves analysts say to expect in the event of either candidate winning. A Clinton victory is good for stocks, the dollar, and would weigh on Treasuries, they predict. A triumphant Trump would increase stock volatility, hit the dollar, lift Treasuries, and spur a rally in gold. Brexit costsThe Institute for Fiscal Studies has warned that UK Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond is facing a 25 billion-pound ($31 billion) hole in the public finances following the vote to leave the European Union. Speaking in parliament yesterday, Brexit Secretary David Davis said there is no going back on the decision to leave, despite the recent setback in the High Court. Industry frustration with the British government is growing, as Ryanair Holdings chief executive officer Michael O Leary joined the critics, saying, What worries me about Brexit is the UK government clearly has no idea what it is doing. Markets flatWith voting opening for the US election, markets are treading water this morning. Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.4%, while Japan&#8217;s Topix index added 0.1%. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.1% higher at 5:13am ET, with Credit Agricole jumping 5.7% after profits surged in the third quarter. S&amp;P 500 futures were little changed.Another low for liraTurkey&#8217;s lira dropped as much as 0.6% to a record 3.185 to the dollar this morning, and was trading at 3.174 at 5:38am ET. The drop came as government ministers ruled out an intervention to stem the decline, and data showed that industrial production unexpectedly turned negative in September. Weakening economic prospects have done nothing to stifle President Recep Tayyip Erdogan&#8217;s ambitions, with talk of expanding Turkey&#8217;s borders aimed at cementing his power at home. 2016 Bloomberg