Emerging-market stocks and currencies were rocked by early results from the US election that gave Donald Trump a narrow lead over Hillary Clinton.The Mexican peso, a barometer of Trump s fortunes, tumbled the most in eight years to a record low, while the Turkish lira sank to an all-time low and the South African rand fell the most in four weeks as traders dumped all but the safest assets. A gauge of developing-nation equities retreated to a three-month low as exporters and banks provided the biggest drag to the benchmark measure. Shares in Hong Kong, India and South Korea paced losses.Markets around the world were thrown into disarray as early results raised the possibility of Republican Trump scoring a surprise upset over Democrat Clinton in the presidential race. A Trump victory is perceived by developing-nation investors as negative after he put forward protectionist pledges that may affect trade, including ties with Mexico and China. It s pretty clear at this stage of the count there s a swing back towards Trump and markets don t like it, said Michael McCarthy, chief market strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney. Markets are having a wobble right now. The MSCI Emerging Markets Currency dropped 0.8% at 12:06 p.m. in Hong Kong, halting a two-day gain, as 10-day historical volatility jumped to the highest level in almost three weeks. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 2.5%, the most since Sept. 12.Trump won Florida, North Carolina and Ohio, giving him a path to winning the White House. Clinton pulled out a victory in Virginia, but Trump was competitive in New Hampshire. Both states are critical to Clinton s hopes. Based on the states that have been called, Trump had 216 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to claim the White House and Clinton had collected 197. The markets are down because the gap between Hillary and Trump is narrower than what people had expected, said John Teja, director at PT Ciptadana Securities in Jakarta. If Trump wins, it will drop even further because it was unexpected. * The peso slumped the most since October 2008 to halt a four-day gain. The Mexican currency became one of the world s most volatile currencies over the past month as traders weighed the prospects that Trump could score an upset win in the presidential race and make good on pledges to renegotiate the free-trade agreement that s transformed Mexico into an export powerhouse. * The rand tumbled 4.1% and the lira weakened 2.5%, while South Korea s won lost 1.7%. The rand was trading at 3.03% at 08:25 South African time.&nbsp;&nbsp;* Russia s ruble retreated 1.3% in offshore trading to 64.6562 versus the dollar, the weakest level on a closing basis since Sept. 20. The currency of the world s biggest energy exporter fell as Trump s election lead sparked concern his protectionist policies will hurt global growth and drive down crude prices.* The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index fell 3.8%. South Korea s Kospi dropped 2.5% and Taiwan s Taiex lost 2.2%. Stocks in Malaysia, South Korea and Shanghai declined at least 0.8%.* The yield on South Korea s 10-year bonds fell 10 basis points to 1.60%. * Indian sovereign bonds rallied after the government withdrew high-denomination banknotes in the nation s crackdown against corruption. The yield on Indian 10-year bonds fell eight basis points to 6.71%, the lowest in a month. 2016 Bloomberg