ING LAMPRECHT: While government is under pressure to raise taxes and cut spending to balance its books, taxpayers are increasingly frustrated about a growing tax burden while wastage and corruption continue. What does the future hold for South African taxpayers?To discuss the way forward, I m joined by the head of the committee tasked with a comprehensive review of South Africa s tax system, Judge Dennis Davis. Judge, thanks for your time today. During the review process of the past three years, what have been your biggest challenges?DENNIS DAVIS: Well, I think the biggest challenge is that if we were growing at 5% we probably wouldn t have these kind of conversations because we would have been raising more than sufficient revenue to cover all of the capital needs of the country and we wouldn t be under the kind of pressure that we are at present. So we as a committee are in an entirely different position from what I certainly found myself when I was a member of the Katz Commission some 20-odd years ago, where an entirely different sort of economic context faced us and where the country was pregnant with all sorts of possibility&#8230; and in particular because of the really much more parlous global state than was the case then.ING LAMPRECHT: Did you have to change your approach because of this?DENNIS DAVIS: No, I don t think you have to change your approach. I think you have to accept that when I mean parlous state, I mean the parlous global economy state. I think when we started in 2013 we knew that the global economy was still not entirely recovered from 2008. We knew that the country wasn t growing the way it should be. So in a way I suppose when you think about it when we accepted the challenge we actually knew there was one but it has got worse, it s obvious. Whereas then the growth rate was tinkering along at 2%, 2.5% and was unsatisfactory, when you re talking now about 0.5%, maybe 1.2% to 1.5% next year, you are talking about serious challenges.ING LAMPRECHT: National Treasury has signalled its intention to raise taxes in February. Where do you think additional taxes are most likely to come from?DENNIS DAVIS: Well, what has been asked I think, if I recall correctly, is roughly R28 billion additional tax and of course, the minister also signalled a cut in government expenditure. We ll come back to that in a moment, but on the tax side I think there are a number of different possibilities. Firstly, R28 billion is not a humungous sum, bearing in mind that we collect roughly R1.1 trillion. So there are a number of different possibilities available to us. If you take a combination of them, if the government, for example, does accept our estate duty recommendations, there is probably R2 billion to R3 billion additional [revenue] there. If the government has to increase the Skills Development Levy in order to fund its additional commitment to the tertiary education sector, there s probably something in the region [of] about R6 billion to R7 billion there.If you take the sugar tax that they seem to be intent on introducing, there s quite a few billion there. Then in addition to that, they are about to introduce a Special Voluntary Disclosure Programme, which means, I think, certainly over the short term, over the years 2017/18, quite significant sums of money there. Then in addition to which, of course, government always has the option not to increase taxes but at the higher income levels not to smooth out for fiscal drag and that probably gets you quite easily to the R28 billion that you require.I don t think that there are going to be increases in corporate tax. Indeed, I think the whole corporate tax system has to be under significant scrutiny because we re coming under increasing international competition, both from the UK, which has signalled a drastic proposal to lower corporate taxes. Clearly Donald Trump although one never quite knows what he thinks but that seems to be the idea there [US] as well, and of course, African states are doing the same.In relation to VAT, it s obviously a tax that has to be increased whether [it s] next year or the year after or the year after that. It is the easiest way to increase revenue. It has potential for retrogressive effects, I agree, but I think that can be dealt with depending on where the money goes to.ING LAMPRECHT: South Africa s tax-to-GDP ratio is around 26% or so. [DD: 26/27% yes.] Numerous studies suggest that increasing tax rates beyond a certain threshold can effectively reduce tax collection. How close are we to that point?DENNIS DAVIS: Let me just take two things, the issue of the tax-to-GDP ratio is itself a bit of a [unclear] which so many of our so-called economists and I emphasise so-called because I m really very sceptical about the economic knowledge [unclear] trumpet on about, but when you talk to the World Bank and the IMF they will tell you that the tax-to-GDP ratio depends to a large degree on the state that you are impelled to create. Let me give you an example: if you want to have greater capital expenditure over a short to medium term, then you are going to have a higher tax-to-GDP ratio and rightly so.Indeed my own view about it is if South Africa reduced its consumption expenditure and increased its capital expenditure that s very good for the economy. It may well be that once you ve got that lift up because of better infrastructure that you start growing at a higher rate and your tax-to-GDP ratio automatically comes down. So we shouldn t be hung up about that. But where I do agree with you is that if you have persistent allegations of corruption and the public thinks that the money that they pay, from their hard-earned cash, does not go to where it is designed to go, that does have an effect on tax morality. There can be no doubt. I don t think we ve reached there yet, but I have to say, you should not take the taxpaying public for granted.ING LAMPRECHT: Are you concerned about tax morality?DENNIS DAVIS: Yes, of course I m concerned about tax morality. What we don t have is the sort of techniques we need to get them but for example the UK Revenue Authorities have. Every year they publish what they think their tax gap is. I think the latest one was 6.5%, meaning they collected roughly 93.5% of that which they should collect. I have no idea what our tax gap is. The only thing I do know through the research that we ve done, is that there is not much of a tax gap between the nominal and effective collections on VAT because we ve got a very efficient system but beyond that I haven t [got] the slightest idea. My guess is, thanks to base erosion and profit shifting and I think somewhat lax treatment of high income individuals, and I m talking about on the classic formulation people over say, R3 million a year I suspect there is a tax gap but I can t prove it because we haven t yet done the work and that has to be done.ING LAMPRECHT: Looking at some of your recommendations around estate duty, trusts and so on, it seems that the tax burden of wealthy South Africans may well increase in future. High net worth individuals are typically quite mobile and can pack up and leave. Is there a concern that an already small tax base may become even smaller?DENNIS DAVIS: Look, there are a couple of responses to that, that s true. Yet, if you go to other countries, the US or Australia, you can t mess around with their tax authorities. That s why we need to have competitive rates, but I m not talking about increasing rates, I m talking about proper compliance. So people are monkeying around with the tax system because they think they can get away with it in South Africa. Be my guest, go and try that stunt on the IRS or the Australian tax authorities or the Canadian tax authorities where people emigrate to and see how well you re going to do there.Number two, the secretion of money overseas into tax havens and tax evasion through that regions, that is rapidly coming to an end worldwide because of increased global concern and cooperation about information sharing. So, no, I m not that concerned about that. I would be concerned if we put up tax rates too high. I accept that.Three, I think we inherited a society with unspeakable levels of inequality that is still too high much too high. In fact, we have to understand that those of us, and I include myself I mean certainly as judges we don t actually get classified or defined as being in the high [net worth] or wealthy group but we are privileged compared to the vast majority of South Africans and frankly until such time that we have dealt with these questions satisfactorily and redressed our past and readdressed questions of inequality and ensure that there are proper institutions that provide a social wage for poor people, we re going to have to shoulder that burden and you know what? It s a small price to pay for stability and safety and security and a decent South Africa. Now let me make one other point, I accept readily when people say to me we re prepared to pay more but we re not prepared to have our money stolen through corrupt means. I agree and that certainly is where my concern is now.ING LAMPRECHT: On that point, according to the Auditor General irregular expenditure by government departments increased by 80% to R43 billion in the 2016 financial year. Many taxpayers are very frustrated about an increasing tax burden while wastage continues. Is government doing enough to address this?DENNIS DAVIS: Well that s a really interesting question and I think there s another figure, which is of particular importance as well. The chief procurement officer at Treasury, Mr Kenneth Brown, made a statement, which seemed to be not as well noticed as it should have been, which as I understand the statement, correct me if I m wrong, but I m sure this is what was intended, is that out of the R600 billion of goods and services purchased by government on a yearly basis, R250 billion of that is tainted, by which we, the public, thanks to the taint, are paying between 20% to 30% more than we should. That means, if you work it out, we re spending between R50 billion to R75 billion more than we should be spending on the acquisition of those goods and services procured by government. Now he is at pains to say this is not just corruption. He is at pains to suggest that this may be inexperience, inefficiency [and] incompetence in the way that the tenders are handled and contracts are concluded. But it s a deeply disturbing phenomenon and, yes, the public are entirely justified in being concerned about it.So the question is, is government doing enough? Palpably, the answer is no to date. There is all sorts of news afoot but I do think that everybody would feel much more comfortable when, in fact, Mr Brown announces next year that they have reduced that gap from, say, 20%, 30% to 10% or where, for example, the Auditor General s report is sufficiently acted upon, so that people either go to jail or alternatively that measures are taken so that when he reports next year that figure is mightily reduced. These are concerns and they must be addressed.ING LAMPRECHT: Judge, moving on to tertiary education for a moment, this has been a major issue over the past year or so. Any ideas on funding mechanisms for tertiary education, specifically?DENNIS DAVIS: Well we did, we as a tax committee, did give some significant we think significant I suppose to put it more accurately advice to the minister, but let me say this about it: If you take the figure of tertiary education, which would be required to have free tertiary education for all, in addition to that which government spends, I think that s absent in the increase that the minister announced now, absent that there s probably a requirement of something in the region of R60 billion. R60 billion would translate to a 3% VAT increase, R60 billion is effectively a 5% increase in our entire tax burden. So you can see that that is a huge figure.Secondly, I think we have got to ask ourselves when we re having the difficulties that you and I are discussing at the moment, is if we did have R60 billion, which we don t, but if we did, would we spend it there, as opposed to let s say pre-primary education or healthcare or any of the other infrastructural demands, which are required in order to ensure that poor people actually have a dignified life. I remain unconvinced that, in fact, free tertiary education for all, including those who can afford it, is a justifiable, progressive measure.That having been said, I think we do have an obligation, partly because we have a constitutional obligation, but partly because I think it s a moral one and an economic one, that we take out of the equation anybody who should be at a university and who cannot afford to be there and that is palpably as group way beyond the R120 000 income which was initially set. It s probably closer to R400 000 or R500 000 a year, and that whole group should be given free tertiary education. That probably is going to cost more than the R17 billion that the minister set aside. That is a priority and we are going to have to jolly find that money.One other thing about it and I get extraordinarily exasperated about this because it s just not so, all sorts of talk show hosts pontificate without any knowledge at all and prattle on about the fact that if we didn t have the overspend we could use the money for that. Well, the answer is that because you ve got corruption that money should go to poor people in any event, they are being denied that money. In other words, when you have corruption and you say that there is X billion rand designed for feeding schemes or schools and that money, in fact, doesn t go there, it s not as if the money shouldn t go there, it s that the money is not going there at all. So it s not as if we stopped that we d suddenly have more money for tertiary education. It will remain a problem, given our economic situation and, therefore the best we can do and I think what we must do is have a viable programme to ensure we take out all of those people. I think that is possible. I think the minister made a very significant move in the medium-term budget to that end and I m hopeful that we ll have a further move to ensure that all of that category of persons should in fact be at a university, where they deserve to be, without any anxiety that they can t pay.ING LAMPRECHT: Judge, just looking at tax refunds for a moment. There have been on-going concerns about the delay in the payment of tax refunds, with the Tax Ombud citing it as the number one serious and systemic issue in his latest annual report. Do you think the tax system strikes the right balance between SARS s powers and taxpayers rights?DENNIS DAVIS: Well, I can tell you that I, myself, looking at my own computer now, I can tell you I am flooded with e-mails from taxpayers who somehow get my e-mail address, and complain to me about exactly the same. I m flooded by e-mails from accounting firms and other tax advisors, who ve given me very credible evidence of withholding of refunds, particularly VAT and others, which quite clearly are unacceptable. There is a problem. It is not good enough to simply squeeze the taxpayer because we want to meet targets. We have to pay them back. We hope that we re impressing the public by getting X rand in but X should be X minus 10% or whatever it is because of refunds. I can tell you that as we speak our committee is now, pursuant to one of the requests from the minister, is looking at tax administration in general and the question of whether there should be reinforced powers for the Ombud, including a proper taxpayers Bill of Rights, which would in a sense give the taxpayer better and more meaningful rights to ensure that legitimate refunds are repaid on time.ING LAMPRECHT: Some commentators have expressed concern about deterioration in South African institutions as a result of political interference. Have you seen any evidence of political interference in the South African tax system?DENNIS DAVIS: Well it s very hard to tell. I don t really want to comment on that. All I can tell you is that SARS has been in the news for all the wrong reasons recently and that s not good. Now I m not apportioning blame to anybody at this point, I m in no position to do that but there s no doubt about it that we have to be concerned about SARS [unclear] and only comes into the news for all the good reasons, which is that for most of its existence subsequent to democracy it was the jewel in the administrative crown and we need to preserve that desperately. Again, we as a tax committee are looking at the operating model of SARS. We re looking at broad principles. We re not interested in individual cases, those are for other bodies to deal with, we are just interested in ensuring that the model that the Katz Commission recommended all those years ago, of an independent SARS, that the model that we have at present is suitable for the needs of the country to preserve that critical principle of independence.ING LAMPRECHT: Judge, just lastly, in a previous interview you mentioned that you ve set yourself a target of another 12 months to finish your review. Which reports still have to be published and what are you considering?DENNIS DAVIS: I m desperate to finish by the end of 2017, which is in a year. We ve got a lot to do, which is why some of my members think I m being optimistic but here we go. We ve got to finish off a VAT report. We ve done the interim. We re doing the final one. We have prepared an oil and gas report, which has got to go out for public comment when the minister releases it and that s going to mean further comment that we ve got to look at and absorb. We ve just initiated a report on the question of company tax, which is a complicated business and, of course, attached thereto the question of incentives and whether we get proper research to deal with incentives and the tax gap. As I ve indicated, we re now into our second month of the tax administration report, we ve got to finalise our report on the Public Benefit Organisations on the charitable side and we re also finishing off a report on wealth tax. So you can see that there is quite a lot still to do and bearing in mind that we are all part timers, every one of us has a job of some sort, so we are all doing it in our spare time and that s why it s taken so long. But I guess we ve got about another 12 months to go.ING LAMPRECHT: Not a lot of sleep in the next 12 months for you then. Thank you, Judge. That was the head of the Davis Tax Committee, Judge Dennis Davis.