Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.Brexit effectThe UK economy continues to be resilient, with GDP rising 0.5% in the third quarter as consumers and businesses increased their spending. Net trade added 0.7 percentage point to GDP as exports rose and imports fell in the first full quarter since the Brexit vote lead to a collapse in the sterling. New data also show the fallout from the referendum result is not showing up in London property prices, where home values have surpassed 14 times earnings for the first time.Bond routTechnical indicators suggest the bond rout should be coming to an end, but so far the market hasn&#8217;t being paying attention. The speed of the selloff, the size of the treasury yield premium over the S&amp;P 500 dividend yield, and fair value all point to the Treasury rout coming to an end. For now, however, it seems that fears over inflation and the Fed rate decision in December continue to trump those technical indicators. Lira fallsYesterday&#8217;s surprise decision by the Turkish central bank to hike rates by 0.5% failed to reverse the selloff in the lira, which fell to another record low this morning. The short-lived bounce in the currency immediately following the decision, which fully reversed within 75 minutes of the announcement, shows investors think there is still more to be done to stem the weakening currency. Criticism from Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the direction of monetary policy is also making investors nervous as there may be an increased risk of political intervention. Markets quietEquity markets are relatively calm this morning in light trading. Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.7% while Japan&#8217;s Topix index added 0.4%, to reach the highest level since January. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 was 0.1% higher at 5:21am ET as the index drifted towards its third weekly advance. S&amp;P 500 futures gained 0.2%. Black FridayThe annual post-Thanksgiving shopping frenzy in the U.S. begins today. The battle between traditional brick-and-mortar stores and online retailers is set to intensify as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp. increase discounts and their online selection as they attempt to keep up with Amazon.com Inc. Overall, retailers are looking forward to a bumper holiday season as consumers breathe a sigh of post-election relief with their spending power boosted by rising wages in the strong U.S. job market. 2016 Bloomberg