South Africa s rand slumped for a fourth day, falling to a ten-week low against the dollar and bond yields climbed to five-month highs as a global debt selloff intensified amid expectations of rising inflation.The currency fell as much as 1.3% before paring the decline to trade 0.7% lower at 14.4410 per dollar by 1:50pm in Johannesburg, heading for the weakest closing level since September 2. Yields on benchmark government bonds due 2026 climbed 8 basis points to 9.26%, the highest in more than five months. The yield on the country s 10-year dollar bonds jumped 17 basis points to 5.06%, the highest since March.Sovereign bonds extended a record debt selloff, lifting the 30-year US Treasury yield above 3% for the first time since January as investors bet US President-elect Donald Trump s spending pledge will fuel inflation and trigger US rate increases. Foreign investors sold a net R9.9 billion ($683 million) of South African bonds last week, according to JSE data. A weekend normally brings some calm to agitated markets but we still feel some further rand weakness may be in order, John Cairns, a currency strategist at Johannesburg-based Rand Merchant Bank, said in an e-mailed note. It does not seem like it will take much to get markets panicking again. The rand may rally as commodity prices increase, said Cairns, who predicted the currency would strengthen to 14 per dollar by the end of the week. South Africa depends on raw materials including copper, coal and iron ore for more than half its export revenues.Inflation ExpectationsInflation expectations for Africa s biggest economy, as measured by the five-year breakeven rate, soared to the highest since August, prompting investors to increase bets on a South African rate rise. The five-year breakeven rate has climbed 48 basis points in the past four trading days to 6.6%.Forward-rate agreements starting in 12 months, used to speculate on policy moves, added 40 basis points since the US election and are now pricing in almost 50 basis points of rate increases. As recently as November 3, the contracts had virtually priced out the prospect of policy tightening. The problem right now is that there s no telling how much further this could go, said George Glynos, managing director and chief economist at ETM Analytics in Johannesburg. You ve got US Treasuries that are continuing to sell-off, bond markets around the world are being sold off, there s a general rotation away from bonds into equities; the safe haven trade is to move back towards the US. South African stocks were down 0.3%, declining a second day. 2016 Bloomberg