South Africa can avoid a downgrade, at least for a little while longer, on a technical upward adjustment of its gross domestic product (GDP). There will be no pain, and the fact is we would be better reflecting reality.How, you may ask? Well, Statistics South Africa released new employment data that showed that the non-farm formal sector has more employees and the salaries indicate that the formal salaries are about 6.6% more than was the case.This adjustment alone would technically add 3.14% to South African GDP. It should have happened some time ago but for some reason was not done.I pointed out the mistake a year ago and got an angry response from the statistician-general, but many economists across the spectrum informed me that I was correct. Economists at official institutions are wondering why this technical under-reporting of the level of GDP is continuing and why it was not fixed last year during the annual adjustments.The problemAs background, South Africa s non-farm payroll data has been a problem for a more than a decade at our statistical agency. In September 2002 the then Survey of Employment and Earning (SEE) had 4.7 million people in it. Then we redid the SEE and found that there were about 1.7 million more employees in the formal sector.Then in 2004 we discovered another 538 000 employees when the SEE became the Quarterly Employment Survey (QES).So what we were previously told was that a 95% confidence level was actually about 45% underestimated. Then Unemployment Insurance Fund data showed that the number was wrong yet again. In April 2006, StatsSA added another 787 000 employees to the QES.Fast forward to 2014, and we saw another 509 000 employees added to the QES. Just one year later and the numbers in the QES were adjusted upwards by another 245 000 employees.The number of employees added by the adjustments since September 2002 is well over 3.7 million out of 9.2 million people. That means 83% of the 4.5 million extra people since 2002 captured in the statistics come from technical adjustments to the numbers and not growth.Now we sit with the crazy notion that salaries in the GDP figures are lower than the non-farm salaries in the QES. We should be adjusting the GDP level. GDP income should also include informal sector estimates indicating a massive GDP underestimate.If South Africa underestimates the formal sector employees by nearly 41%, then certainly the informal sector employment numbers are fiction too.Furthermore, there is now a report from the University of Pretoria that says that the census data points to about double the number of commercial farmers in South Africa than previously counted by the Survey of Agriculture. The older estimate of about 38 000-odd farming units is closer to 70 000 units. Moreover, there are also about 200 000 smaller farmers in South Africa who have some plot-sized land. Again the underestimation is staggering, as these censuses have been done every few years since 2001.That turned out to be fiction.This means that the Labour Force Survey data on agricultural employment is very likely a massive underestimate. Just the 270 000 farmers here will employ only three people on average if the 825 000 estimate of agricultural labour force is true.That is unlikely, given that subsistence agriculture alone would be about 400 000 by some estimates. Farmers have become more careful employers and the trend in agricultural employment is probably down.So even in agriculture, the numbers are very low indeed. It is, therefore, likely that the 6.6% underestimate in employee income is closer to about 7.5% with agricultural employee earnings.Add the mixed income from the doubling of the number of farmers and small farmers, and it is very likely that the whole agricultural estimates are far too low. This could lift that total number even higher.Many think that if one adjusts the employee income, it is likely that the gross operating surplus may also be a higher level.The gross operating surplus is likely to be at least 2% to 4% underestimated. Here I am on slightly rockier ground, but I do believe there is a level of underestimation in the gross operating surplus otherwise tax amnesties would be a complete waste of time.Again this would not influence the trend in the economy, but it would help the actual level of the economy.Other economists have expressed concern that the South African statistical agency is underestimating the level of GDP.It is unlikely that the growth trend is wrong, but for many years, due to the wrong levels of economic activity and employment, the size of the South African economy has been underestimated.Overall, it seems reasonable that the current underestimation of the GDP is at least around 6%.This 6% underestimate would lower gross government debt to GDP from about 49% to 46%.That 3% lower is very important, as with our government guarantees the actual level of total debt is getting closer to 55% and &#8211; with South African Airways and the SABC at least still in the queue for more funds &#8211; the ratio could get close to 60% in the next three years.At least one ratings agency has pointed out that the 60% level is what will lead to a downgrade for South Africa. At 52% on this reasonably-conservatively estimated new level of GDP, the future projections look a lot better.This technical adjustment will allow us to fight off a downgrade for another year and it would also lower other ratio numbers, such as the deficit to GDP, and our previous growth rates would look a bit better, allowing rating agencies to justify not downgrading the country.The GDP adjustment would increase our per capita GDP as well &#8211; another level (and of course trend) that rating agencies measure.This technical adjustment must be made as it is the right thing to do. It is also the international way to do so correctly at least on the employees income and the mixed income of the extra farmers.One honestly does not understand why this has not yet been done. Or are we holding our fire until it is too late?