At the start of 2004, Naspers was trading at R42 per share. The company had only recently been included in the FTSE/JSE Top 40 and carried a weighting of just 0.68% in the index, which made it about the same size as Iscor at the time.Since then the company&#8217;s share price has rocketed to its current levels of over R2 200 per share. It is also now by far the largest component of the Top 40.Following last month&#8217;s de-listing of SABMiller, Nasper&#8217;s weighting in the index has grown to over 19%. That is bigger than the weightings of the next two largest companies Richemont and BHP Billiton combined.It goes without saying that anyone who held Naspers shares over this period could have made a lot of money. An investor that bought R1 000 worth of stock at the start of 2004, would have seen that grow to over R50 000 today.Together with this substantial growth, the company has also gained increased influence in the market. This has been so significant that some analysts have noted that the difference between successful and unsuccessful fund managers over the past decade has largely been a distinction between those that held Naspers and those that didn&#8217;t.There are, of course, exceptions but the majority of unit trusts that have out-performed over this time have held big chunks of Naspers in their portfolios. For instance, the Coronation Top 20 and SIM Top Choice Equity funds, which are both top performers over the past decade, hold over 12% and 14% of their portfolios in Naspers respectively.This success, however, also created a bit of a dilemma for these funds. Managers are generally uncomfortable with holding more than 10% of their portfolio in a single stock because of the concentration risk this creates. Only in exceptional circumstances might they give a company a weighting of up to 15%.Furthermore, regulations do not permit any general equity fund to hold more than 20% of its portfolio in a single stock.What this means is that it has become almost impossible for any fund to be overweight Naspers. Even the managers most bullish on the stock have to give it a lower weighting than it carries in the index.This has created a situation in which the only funds that have continued to benefit fully from Naspers&#8217; rise have been index trackers. Many active managers have been forced to sell the company&#8217;s stock as the price has climbed in order to manage the risk in their portfolios. Index trackers, however, have simply kept following the index. That means that they have, if anything, been buying more and therefore kept benefitting as the price goes higher.However, this does mean that these funds now carry exactly the kind of risk that most active managers have been avoiding. They now hold almost a fifth of their portfolios in a single company, meaning that whatever happens to Naspers will have a major effect on their overall returns.Of course, if Naspers continues to climb, investors will see significant benefit. But if the share fails to perform, it will create a drag on the entire portfolio.This is an argument many active managers will put forward as to why it has become increasingly risky to invest in local index trackers. Anyone who does so is heavily exposing themselves to a company that is trading on a price-to-earnings multiple of over 100 times.However, it is worth asking whether the counter argument doesn&#8217;t also apply. Anyone who doesn&#8217;t invest in the index will have to be underweight Naspers. In other words, they will not benefit fully if, as many active managers argue it will, the company continues to perform.Ultimately, it&#8217;s a rather good example of why it makes good sense to use both active and passive vehicles in a portfolio. The benefits of each are quite clearly complementary, and when used together offer the most attractive risk-adjusted return potential.