Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.VolatOILOpec ministers are meeting in Vienna today, and oil is rising amid hopes that a deal will be struck. A barrel of West Texas Intermediate for January delivery was trading $2.72 higher at $47.94 by 5:39am ET in a volatile session driven by attendees&#8217; comments to the press that a deal is close. Mnuchin for TreasuryFormer Goldman Sachs Group partner and Hollywood producer Steven Mnuchin is said to be President-elect Donald Trump&#8217;s choice to be the next US Treasury secretary. According to a person familiar with the matter, Trump is also continuing to meet candidates for the secretary of state role, with retired Marine Corps General John F. Kelly and Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney still said to be in the running for position. Carney fires backBank of England Governor Mark Carney had a warning for the European Union this morning when he said that the EU has a lot to lose if the British banking system is damaged due to Brexit. This follows comments on Monday from ECB President Mario Draghi where he warned the UK. is likely to suffer most from a hard Brexit. Carney&#8217;s comments came as the BOE released the results of its latest stress test, with Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc forced to bolster its capital plan after failing multiple hurdles. Shares in RBS were down 4.3% by 5:19am ET. Markets flatOvernight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.2% as Samsung Electronics Company surged to a record high, while Japan&#8217;s Topix index added 0.1%. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.1% higher at 5:24am ET as trading remained thin ahead of the outcome of today&#8217;s Opec meeting. S&amp;P 500 futures were also up 0.1%. Euro inflationEuro-area inflation accelerated to 0.6% year-over-year in November, from 0.5% in October, with core inflation remaining unchanged at 0.8%. The ECB is due to meet next week to discuss whether it needs to extend its asset-purchase plan ahead of the current March 2017 end date. In the US today, ADP employment change, mortgage applications and personal income and spending data are all due. 2016 Bloomberg