JOHANNESBURG In an effort to resuscitate the world economy after the global financial crisis, Central Banks introduced significant cuts in interest rates particularly in the developed world accompanied by unprecedented quantitative easing (QE).Eight years later there are still trillions of QE dollars floating around in the system and interest rates remain very low by historical standards.But although the world economy is growing, the numbers are nowhere near the levels one would have expected given the quantum of stimulus.The International Monetary Fund expects the world economy to grow by 3.1% this year and has predicted growth of 1.6% for the US.Kevin Lings, chief economist at STANLIB, says on a trend basis, US growth hasn t gone back to historical levels. Typically the US would be growing at over 3% per annum and in excess of 4% during a recovery phase. So clearly something is amiss. You provided all this massive stimulus to the world economy, but you haven t seen it translate into much higher growth. Lings argues that there are five factors restricting world growth.There has been a rise in rightwing politics around the world the Brexit vote and Donald Trump s popularity in certain circles are just two examples.Lings says the increase in rightwing politics has been accompanied by a call for looking after your own protecting industry to ensure it is not hurt by international events.This seems to be leading to an anti-globalisation trend.After embracing a period of intense globalisation the world has become more protectionist, resulting in a slowdown in global trade. As long as world trade is sluggish, world growth will be sluggish.&#8221;2. Lack of fixed investment spendingAlthough Central Banks have been printing money, it hasn t found its way into infrastructure development or capacity building in the private sector.Investment is not only a problem in South Africa, but globally, and without it economic activity struggle to flourish.Lings says in the developed world, the level of fixed investment as a percentage of GDP has plateaued below its historical average despite record low interest rates.US GDP is growing, but investment activity in the private sector especially machinery and equipment is in recession. It is that anomaly which is hurting the world economy. 3. Ageing populations in developed marketsIn 1960, the ratio of young people (less than 16 years old) to working adults in developed markets was 48%. Over time this number fell substantially. Young people as a percentage of the working age population is now at the lowest level it has even been (see chart below).Source: STANLIBAt the same time, older people as a percentage of working adults has reached the highest level in history.This has very significant implications for growth, Lings says.Increasing amounts of money have to be allocated to healthcare and retirement provision leaving fewer resources for other activities.Millennials are making different life choices studying longer and living with their parents. Many are not participating in the economy.In the US the fastest growing age group for employment is people over the age of 70. Employment levels for people aged 35 to 49 have not recovered to the levels seen prior to the financial crisis.The problem is that 70-year-olds don t consume the way 35-year-olds do. The 70-year-old earns money but he doesn t supplement that with a whole lot of debt. He doesn t rush out and buy a new car, a new house [or a] new washing machine. The 35-year-old tends to be the more aggressively leveraged consumer. Thus, even though jobs are being created, it doesn t create growth the way it used to because of the age profile of the people employed.4. Rebalancing of the Chinese economy Lings says China s focus on investment to grow its economy has worked phenomenally well, but the country now has spare capacity and has had to slow down fixed investment while encouraging consumption spending.Because the economy does not need as many raw materials for manufacturing purposes, imports have declined significantly.China s single biggest import item is commodities. The decline in commodity imports put pressure on commodity prices and emerging economies, many of them significant commodity exporters.Lings says China has had a more substantial effect on emerging markets than is recognised because of the slowdown in imports.5. Lack of confidence A lack of confidence has a negative impact on economies as it holds back investment.A crisis of leadership has contributed to the problem, with 86% of respondents in the 2015 World Economic Forum s Global Leadership Index saying there is a leadership crisis in the world.The world is highly unequal. The Forbes richest list suggests that the 10 wealthiest people in the world are collectively worth more than $500 billion. This is more than the entire GDP of many countries, including Sweden and South Africa. It feels to the average person that the world is unfair, the world is unequal. Corruption is also a big concern. More than 6 billion people live in countries considered to be seriously corrupt.Not a silver bullet Lings says while interest rates and quantitative easing are important tools, they are not the panacea to world growth and countries have to deal with the other impediments. You have got to deal with leadership, you have got to deal with infrastructure development [and] fixed investment. You have got to find a way to lift confidence. So the answer is that governments must start to own responsibility for growing the economy, not just the Central Bank and that you have got to avail yourself of other policy tools. Lings says fiscal policy must play a bigger role as well as infrastructure development. Governments must also revisit levels of protection, labour policy, regulation and trade policy.South AfricaWhile interest rates in South Africa have been relatively low, economic growth remains lacklustre.South Africa also faces leadership, confidence and corruption issues. The answer for South Africa is the same answer for everywhere else in the world. Inspire confidence, particularly business confidence [and] get more infrastructure and other investment going, Lings says.While South Africa doesn t have the demographic problem, that in itself will not ignite growth unless the country undertakes investment and get people employed, he says.