For much of the last decade, South African retailers have had it easy at the expense of Edcon. At first, private equity owners and a boatload of debt (you can t have one without the other) meant the usual rounds of cost cuts and underinvestment. Then, Edcon sold its crown jewel its debtors book to Barclays African (then Absa) in 2012 and in so doing, lost control of its destiny.With Edcon floundering, the other retailers particularly credit rivals TFG and Truworths International made hay. Sales growth remained robust, despite a broader market and economy going nowhere slowly. At first, commentators were confounded, but it quickly became apparent that Edcon was rapidly surrendering market share to its rivals as Barclays Africa s ever-tightening lending criteria effectively suffocated its credit business.That was then. Bain s inglorious exit in September (along with the debt noose) has freed up Edcon to compete again. This kind of turnaround was never going to be easy, but you suspect Aussie retailer Bernie Brookes came into this with eyes wide open when he took the CEO position a little over a year ago. In fact, he told the Financial Mail last month that it was the challenge that attracted him to the retailer which he just really want[s] to fix .There s a lot to fix, chiefly its appeal to customers as Brookes terms it. I argued in September that the granting of credit to its customers was as big a problem (Edgars has one enormous problem to solve). Edcon (and Brookes) knows this. And there have been more than a few indications over the past few months that it is doing something about both of these issues.The latest, and by far the most public and direct of these, is a new advertising campaign, titled Forever Edgars, that is frank with customers and is (surely) being used to start earning back trust. We re bringing back the Edgars you know and love, starts the ad, before immediately highlighting that the retailer is under new ownership and that it will be upgrading stores, adding service staff, and, crucially, offering easier access to credit for every South African .It announced (quietly) last week that it had agreed with Absa that (roughly) 80% of new accounts would be opened on (and funded by) its in-house credit solution and that (roughly) 20% would be booked by Absa. This doesn t instantly solve the credit problem the group has been facing for nearly half a decade, but I d expect credit sales to turn positive in the next 12 months. We ve reached the bottom.Changing perception is going to take time. Coupled with this is perception about its range of fashion too. Anecdotally, more than a few people I ve spoken to in recent months have noticed a far better selection of clothing (including clothing they actually wanted to buy!) It cannot be overstated just how big a step this is. Its advertising has improved (here s an example from its summer campaign) and the Forever Edgars ad speaks of more choice in the brands you want (read: its own private label brands which, remarkably, still have great reputations despite the poor management). There is also a (seemingly) renewed willingness to compete on price throughout the year, properly (a departure from the heavy month-end discounting strategy it had been using to effectively pay the bills for years).https://twitter.com/hiltontarrant/status/773227445084381184Somehow (either deliberately or by complete accident), it hasn t lost out in expanding its store footprint as big new malls, like Mall of Africa, opened. Had it fallen behind, growing market share from this point would ve been near impossible.I d argue that TFG Limited, Truworths International, and to a lesser extent Woolworths and Mr Price Group ought to be worried with a resurgent Edgars. Despite its travails, it remains a big business. Edgars reported retail sales of R13.929 billion for the 52 weeks (year) to March 26 2016, flat year-on-year versus 2015. The group, by comparison, said retail sales for FY2016 were R27.147 billion, meaning Edgars accounted for little over 51%.Real growth of 7% on the current level would mean an additional R1 billion in retail sales a year. That is R1 billion in sales that is going to come at the expense of competitors (the market is stagnant and it s hard to see where growth is going to come from in the next year or three). Keith McLachlan, in his article detailing why SA retail is in trouble, agrees, saying that Edcon was likely to chug along just fine protecting its market share. In other words, the listed retailers are no longer having their growth subsidised by Edgars woes. Now, R1 billion in sales a year is material. TFG Limited reported (Africa, incl. SA) turnover of R17.5 billion in 2016, while Truworths International said retail sales for the year to June was R12.889 billion (excluding the UK s Office).I m not suggesting for a second that we re going to see rates of growth of 7% next month or next quarter, but we will. And once there is momentum, it s going to get a lot easier for Brookes and his team.Finally, don t discount the influence of its new owners a committee of bondholders (i.e. banks). They sure as heck don t want to own this business forever.A strong Edgars is good for the market, good for competition, good for landlords, good for consumers (!), but probably not all that great for shareholders of its competitors No wonder they all went on offshore acquisition sprees &nbsp;* Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at [email&#160;protected]