SIKI MGABADELI: We are bringing you our Tipping Point feature, which is about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are.My colleague Tumisang Ndlovu spoke to Bra Hugh Masekela, who is a legendary South African jazz musician. He takes us through his journey.HUGH MASEKELA: Well, I don t have the same base, because many of my dates happened in many different locations.When I&#8217;m off I exercise. I do Pilates and Tai Chi. I swim every day. We spend most of our time just talking about what is surrounding us in our lives and how sometimes you spend sleepless nights as an idea attacks you. I&#8217;m writing a second book, actually a commentary on all aspects of life today as I see it. I may try and write a song for this musical that I&#8217;m working on.TUMISANG NDLOVU: What has been the best part of what you do, Bra Hugh?HUGH MASEKELA: I think that being in music is the greatest thing that has been a blessing to me, in that I&#8217;ve been able to travel the whole world, and also live in other different cultures. I lived on and off in the States for 30 years. And during that time I also lived in Jamaica, I also lived in Nigeria, in Ghana, in Guinea, in the Congo. And later in Botswana. I lived there for substantial times, so I was able to like absorb the culture and the music.So I&#8217;ve had more or less a borderless life. I wish everybody could have the opportunity to see the world, because I think it opens up our minds. I&#8217;m very fortunate that music took me. I was bewitched by music, by the way. That was not my plan.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Wow! That is interesting, because my next question was: have you ever in your life thought of doing anything other than music?HUGH MASEKELA: Well, I was bewitched when I was an infant, and some days I used to be punished for singing too much, so I d stop singing. I had an uncle with a gramophone. When he came home for the holidays but I lived for music all my life.When I was five my parents got me piano lessons, and when I was 14 I saw this film [Young man with a horn]. But by then I was already a big record collector. This film was about a trumpet player. I was at boarding school and I asked my chaplain if I could get one. He also got me a trumpet teacher.So I&#8217;ve been in music now for 72 years. I didn t get a chance to do anything else, but I write not too badly and I&#8217;m going into other things now in the September of my years.SIKI MGABADELI: I would like to find out whose music you think is interesting and entertaining to you, the legend.HUGH MASEKELA: Well, first of all I don t think of myself as a legend. I didn t go into music to get known or anything like that. I was hurled into music very much, not of my own will. I&#8217;ve been a sponge for music and I enjoy every kind of music that is made. Music fascinated me, like when a bird is singing in the morning I hear words for what it&#8217;s saying. I&#8217;ll spend a month in my car, wherever I go, listening to one record that s fascinating me for that month, or that s inspiring me. But I&#8217;m not choosy. I listen to everybody.SIKI MGABADELI: He may not want to be called a legend, but that s the legendary Bra Hugh Masekela, speaking to my colleague, Tumisang Ndlovu.