Investment holding company Reinet has grown net asset value by a healthy 5.7% to 5.5 billion in the six months between April 30 and September 30, 2016.This translates into a NAV per share at 30 September 2016 of 28.12, up from 26.65. For South African investors who hold depository receipts worth a tenth of Reinet s Luxembourg listed share, NAV per share is R39.37, which is a 32% premium to the share price of R26.80.While the wide discount may be of some concern to shareholders, what cannot be ignored is that the growth reflects a compound return of 16% per cent per annum, in euro terms, since March 2009. This includes dividends paid. This is a phenomenal return and is so typical Remgro, says Reuben Beelders, portfolio manager at Gryphon Asset Management. It appears they have done nothing, but they continue to deliver returns. While some investors worry that Reinet is simply a proxy for British American Tobacco (BAT) a closer look at the financials reveals that of the 5.9 billion in total investments, 2 billion is other investments a figure that has steadily grown since 2009. More haste less speed is the old adage, says Beelders. [Johan] Rupert and Co. are patient investors and have consistently said they will not invest if the opportunity does not present value. I d argue that they are being more patient in Reinet than they are in Remgro. The statement on Reinet s results for the six months to September provided insight into the performance of the unlisted assets. It was this that investors found positive. The other moving parts like the BAT results, the currency moves and net asset value as at the 30th of September were known prior to Tuesdays announcement. The performance of Pension Insurance Corporation (PIC) is particularly pleasing, says Liam Hechter, an analyst with Anchor Capital. The value of the PIC investment is up 13% in sterling since the last update in June. PIC now makes up over 20% of our calculation of the net assets of Reinet and is displaying resilience in light of a very complex UK financial services landscape. New pension insurance business written was 31% higher than the same period last year.&#8221;Reinet s private equity portfolio, which includes US and Europe focused Trilantic Capital and Snow Phipps funds as well as Asian funds also remained fairly stable in light of the volatile global landscape.In the period Reinet invested a further 179 million into PIC, 17 million into Trilantic and 18 million in two co-investments with private equity firm Snow Phipps, among others.Reinet also participated in the initial public offering of Selecta Biosciences, a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, acquiring 350 000 shares on the Nasdaq for 4 million. Selecta uses proprietary synthetic vaccine particle technology to discover and develop therapies that are designed to modulate the immune system in order to treat rare and serious diseases.The company makes no comment about BAT s $47 billion offer for US cigarette maker Reynolds American. Recent reports suggest that the board of Reynolds, in which BAT has a 42% stake, will seek a higher price from the UK firm.If this deal goes ahead Reinet, which holds 68.1 million shares in BAT, which represents some 3.7% of BAT s issued share capital may have to cough up for the rights issue that would be necessary to partially fund the deal. What will Reinet do? Follow rights and see tobacco become a bigger slice of NAV? Or not follow and risk dilution? says Beelders. This uncertainty could be extending the discount. Personally I believe they should follow their rights and sell over time. Anchor favours an investment in Reinet over a direct holding in BAT. 32% is at the upper end of the historic discount to NAV and we are positive on the prospects of PIC and recently we have become more constructive on the investment case for global tobacco stocks, says Hechter. We are currently buyers of Reinet. 