Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.Deal or no dealA barrel of West Texas Intermediate was trading near $48 this morning with optimism over an Opec deal to curb production fading as the question of Iran and Iraq&#8217;s participation in the plan remained unresolved. For Saudi Arabia, the world&#8217;s largest crude producer, the resistance of Iran and Iraq to the deal shows its waning power in the group it once dominated. PMI dayEuro-area economic growth accelerated to the fastest pace this year, with a Purchasing Managers Index for manufacturing and services rising to 54.1 in November, according to IHS Markit, the strongest level in 11 months. In France, a drop in manufacturing PMI was offset by a rise in services, while in Germany, composite PMI slipped slightly to 54.9, remaining well in expansion territory. Yields on German two-year bonds slid to a record low this morning. Autumn statementUK Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond is expected to outline a series of measures to help the less well-off when he makes his mini-budget Autumn Statement to parliament during the UK afternoon. One company getting hit in trading this morning is Foxtons Group Plc which has fallen the most in four months as Hammond is expected to confirm the scrapping of letting-agent fees. The chancellor is also expected the reveal the cost of the UK vote to leave the European Union, with an extra 110 billion of borrowing likely to be needed over the next four years. Currency traders predict a volatile session for the pound. Market rally fadingYesterday&#8217;s record high close in US stocks fed through to Aisa overnight, where the MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index rose 0.7%, with commodity producers leading the gains. Japanese markets were closed for a holiday. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 gave up earlier gains to trade 0.3% lower at 5:30am ET as financials slipped. S&amp;P 500 futures slipped 0.1%.Coming up&#8230;There&#8217;s a lot to look for in the US today ahead of the Thanksgiving break. At 8:30am ET durable goods orders are due, with expectations for a jump to 1.7% for October. Weekly initial jobless claims data will be released at the same time. At 9:45am Markit manufacturing PMI is due, and then at 10:00am new-home sales and University of Michigan&#8217;s sentiment gauge is published. Finally, at 2:00pm the minutes of November&#8217;s FOMC meeting are published. 2016 Bloomberg