A Federal Reserve interest-rate increase next month is as certain as death and taxes for bond traders, as speculation mounts that Donald Trump s reflationary policies will mean a quicker pace of monetary tightening.The market-implied odds of action at the central bank s Dec. 13-14 meeting have reached 100 percent, according to Bloomberg calculations based on futures. An auction of two-year Treasuries Monday drew the highest yield since 2009 before a sale of five-year debt Tuesday. A bond market gauge of inflation expectations is close to its highest level since 2015.President-elect Trump campaigned on promises of massive tax cuts and spending of as much as $1 trillion over a decade to rebuild the nation s infrastructure. His unexpected victory in the Nov. 8 election spurred a rout in bonds, a surge in the dollar and gains in stocks. A rate hike could well become appropriate relatively soon, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said last week. After the Trump Shock, it s easy for the Fed to hike, because inflation expectations have gone up, as have stocks, said Hideaki Kuriki, a debt investor in Tokyo at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management. He said he s 100 percent certain of tightening next month.The two-year Treasury note yield climbed three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.10 percent as of 10:17 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Data. It reached the highest since 2010. The benchmark 10-year note yielded 2.32 percent, after reaching 2.36 percent Friday, the highest since November 2015.The difference between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has climbed to 1.95 percent from as low as 1.12 percent in February. Japanese attracted Treasury 10-year yields of around 2.3 percent are attracting Japanese and European investors, though U.S. funds are expecting them to rise further, Sumitomo Mitsui s Kuriki said. They will climb to around 2.5 percent once investors become more concerned about the fiscal deficit under a Trump administration, and the break-even rate may reach 3 percent, he said.The yield will rise to 2.5 percent at the end of 2017, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weighting. Wall Street dealers bought more than half of Monday s $26 billion two-year auction, as investor demand waned before next month s Fed meeting. The Treasury is scheduled to sell $28 billion of five-year notes Tuesday. 2016 Bloomberg L.P