JOHANNESBURG To ignite inclusive economic growth in South Africa from a diversified range of sectors, the sole focus on labour intensive areas had to shift to the technology economy, an analyst has argued.Speaking at the 2nd Continental Africa Tax Conference, Dr Nomfundo Ngwenya, project director for GEG Africa, said not too far from Cape Town in Stellenbosch, South Africa had its own Silicon Valley. There is this interplay of this powerful combination of capital and technology that is creating new businesses that are internationally competitive, churning out billions of rands worth in turnover. But my worry is: who is involved in that new economy that we are creating as South Africa because the majority of South Africans are still stuck in the conversation of labour intensive economic growth, Ngwenya said.Her comments come amidst a challenging economic growth environment in South Africa and projections that the country s GDP will expand by a mere 0.5% this year. Unemployment rose to 27.1% in the third quarter, the highest level in eight years, Statistics South Africa reported on Tuesday.Ngwenya said politicians mandate was to deliver jobs immediately, which meant they would naturally preoccupy themselves with labour intensive industries like manufacturing.Yet, there was this new economy that had immense potential and that a minority of South Africans was already involved in, she added.The South African case was a bit troubling considering the country s history and where it should ideally be moving against the background of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and technological advancements, she said. Something in our domestic conversation needs to start moving towards saying how do we get more South Africans involved in this new technology so that the inclusive growth we talk about can come from a more diversified range of sectors than what we are traditionally accustomed to. South Africa s economic growth misfortune has been closely aligned with the lack of global growth, and the downturn in the commodity cycle has been a hard pill to swallow, but structural issues have also hampered expansion.SA and AfricaDavid Faulkner, economist at HSBC, said about 55% to 60% of the Sub-Saharan Africa economy is really struggling with very low growth rates, partly because of the collapse in oil prices. In South Africa it has been driven by several factors. One is the fact that commodity prices are low. We are also suffering from a range of structural constraints to growth. The International Monetary Fund now expects growth in Sub-Saharan Africa to slow to 1.4% this year the slowest level in two decades.The medium-term picture isn t too bad, however, and growth could pick up towards 4%. Smaller non-resource economies will likely drive this growth and not necessarily the large resource-driven countries that did so in the past, Faulkner said. I think there is still a very strong long-term story for Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa that is driven around demographics, around urbanisation trends and how that can continue to push and drive growth forward and at a fairly rapid pace over a long time horizon. Dianna Games, CEO of Africa @ Work, said she had been quite sceptical of the Africa rising story as the whole narrative was built on feet of clay.It was premised on fast-growing economies without really examining building blocks like health, education and skills development that allow economies to succeed.Games said high growth rates turned out to be somewhat of a problem as governments neglected to restructure to modern states. What is happening now is you are seeing countries taking the pain of that lack of restructuring. The collapse in the oil price had been a reality check for many African countries. An oil price of $100 a barrel was never the norm and untransformed economies were forced to adapt, she said. We are now seeing the necessary restructuring. 