The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose to an all-time high as US stocks added to a rally sparked by speculation Donald Trump s policies will benefit businesses, with banks surging to the highest level since May 2008.The Dow rose 163.30 points, or 0.9%, to 18,752.99 at 9:45 a.m. in New York, taking it above its August 15 record. The S&amp;P 500 Index advanced 0.9% to 2,181.50, within 0.4% of a record.Banks surged 3.7%, pushing the two-day advance to 8%, as JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. jumped 4.9% and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. climbed 2.9%. Drugmakers advanced, led by Pfizer Inc. s 2.9% rally. Industrial shares rose 1.6%, with Boeing Co. adding 2.7%.The three industries have paced the rally since Trump s surprise win on Tuesday, surging on expectations that the president-elect and Republican-controlled Congress will roll back regulations and boost infrastructure spending. Trump s promise to revive American infrastructure means commodities used to build everything from airports to bridges will benefit under his presidency, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. It s a relief rally over the certainty of the outcome of the election and after the conciliatory tone that Trump took, said Nick Skiming, a fund manager at Jersey, Channel Islands-based Ashburton Ltd. His firm oversees $10 billion. There s hope that a new president can introduce reforms that will enable corporate America to move forward. The CBOE Volatility Index fell 3.5% on Thursday, set for its biggest two-day drop since June. The measure of market turbulence known as the VIX reached a four-month high on Friday. US stocks had been heavily hedged as volatility surged leading up to the vote on speculation a Trump win had the potential to rattle markets as he had pledged to clamp down on international trade deals, while adopting divisive rhetoric throughout his campaign.In the 22 elections going back to 1928, the S&amp;P 500 has fallen 15 times the day after polls close, for an average loss of 1.8%. Stocks reversed course and moved higher over the next 12 months in nine of those instances, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.With the election uncertainty out of the way, investors are also weighing prospects for the timing of the Federal Reserve s next rate increase. Odds for a December move have increased to 82% from 78% a week ago. A report today showed jobless claims declined from an almost three-month high ahead of the election.Among shares moving on corporate news, Perrigo Co. rose 4.5% after saying it will review options including the sale of rights to the royalty stream from a multiple sclerosis drug. Shake Shack Inc. stock jumped 9.6% in after the burger chain raised its annual sales forecast.MetLife Inc. gained 1% after announcing a plan to buy back $3 billion in shares as the company prepares to spin off a capital-intensive US retail business. Kohl s Corp. rallied 6.1% after posting better-than-estimated earnings and boosting its stock repurchase program. 2016 Bloomberg L.P