Emerging markets extended losses, threatening the best annual rally since 2012, as the dollar s strength cut demand for riskier assets in the wake of Donald Trump s US presidential election victory.The Turkish lira, Russia s ruble and Brazil s real led declines among developing-market currencies and a gauge of developing-nation equities retreated for a fourth day amid speculation the US is headed for an era of rising interest rates and protectionist trade policies. Brazil s bonds tumbled the most among peers. Bulgarian debt fell after voters chose former Air Force Chief Rumen Radev, a political novice who wants to limit immigration and reduce sanctions on Russia, as the new president.Trump s victory spurred a rout in developing markets as investors rushed to haven assets, wiping $1.2 trillion off the value of bonds worldwide, on speculation the president-elect s promises to usher in protectionist trade policies and broaden spending on US infrastructure will fuel inflation. The plunge in currencies was mirrored in the equity and bond markets where investors withdrew $1.72 billion from US exchange-traded funds that buy emerging-market stocks and debt, the largest losses since May. The selloff in emerging markets will continue as long as US rates keep climbing, said Guillaume Tresca, a senior emerging-market strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Paris who recommends buying the Turkish lira against the South African rand. One could say the current levels are attractive but given the good year so far and with the end of year coming, I don t see reasons for investors to take long emerging-market positions. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.9% to 841.6 as of 1:47 p.m. in London, the lowest level since July 8. The gauge pared its 2016 rally to 5.8%, more than half of the gains recorded at the beginning of September. All 11 industrial groups declined.The MSCI Emerging Markets Currency Index slid 0.3%, extending last week s 2.27% drop, the sharpest four-day loss since 2011. Trump s pledges to boost spending have pushed up bets the Federal Reserve will increase interest rates at its December meeting to 84%, from 76% at the end of the week before the November 8 US election, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Top movers The premium investors demand to own developing-nation government bonds over US Treasuries widened 12 basis points to 361, the highest in more than three months, according to JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. indexes. The yield on 30-year Treasuries rose above 3% for the first time since January. Mexico s peso fell 0.5%, extending four days of declines to a record 14.4%, on concern Trump may renegotiate or abandon the nation s trade deal with the US one-month historical volatility increased for a fourth day to the highest since 2008. Brazil s real depreciated 1.6%, extending four days of losses to 9%, and volatility increased to a seven-month high as the central bank s interventions to support the currency failed to counter rising US yields. Brazilian shares advanced 1% as brokerage Clear Corretora said bargain hunters were buying up shares after the Ibvoespa Index fell the most in the world in the last five days. The yield on Bulgaria s euro-denominated bonds maturing in September 2024 rose 18 basis points to 2.09%, advancing for a sixth day, to the highest since July 8. Radev s victory as president led the government of Boyko Borissov to resign, putting the EU s poorest country on track for its third early parliamentary elections in five years. The country s benchmark stock index shed 0.7%. The lira, South Korean won, Malaysian ringgit and Hungarian forint were among currencies that weakened at least 0.7% as the Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index advanced to the highest since February. The ruble dropped 1.1% as Brent crude traded near $44 a barrel. Ulker Biskuvi Sanayi AS tumbled 11 percent in Istanbul, headed for the biggest drop since June 2013, after a column in a local newspaper fueled speculation that it ll be caught up in President Recep Tayyip Erdogan s nationwide crackdown against his opponents. The Jakarta Composite Index slumped 2.2% in the biggest decline in Asia, adding to a 4% plunge on November 11. Property developer PT Bumi Serpong Damai tumbled 6.8%. Dubai s DFM General Index fell 1%, taking its four-day decline to 3.3%, and the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index shed the most since October 17. Poland s WIG Index fell 1.7%, leading declines in central and eastern Europe. Shoemaker CCC SA fell as much as 52%, the steepest drop since June 24, after third-quarter earnings missed forecasts. The yield on Brazil s 10-year debt maturing 2027 advanced 22 basis points to 12.29%, the highest since September 20. The yield on the equivalent-maturity security in Turkey rose 21 basis points to 11.1%. 2016 Bloomberg L.P