South Africa appears to be making little progress in implementing measures to revive its ailing economy, says Standard &amp; Poor s Global Ratings.Speaking at an insurance seminar in Johannesburg, Gardner Rusike, associate director of South Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa at S&amp;P said a progress report from government on the plans laid out to boost growth, earlier this year, would provide some comfort. We would like to see economic reforms being followed through We would like to see government doing what they said they would do, that would give us comfort that things can change, he said.Rusike added that on-going political tension may affect policy choices and undermine measures to boost economic growth. Political dynamics affect policy choices and policy choices affect outcomes. South Africa is in a place of low economic growth and there is no help, at this present time, from the global environment, so much of that help can only come from domestic policy, he said.A deterioration in the political environment will affect confidence in government s ability to pull together and implement the measures necessary to stimulate growth. If things deteriorate further it becomes difficult to continue believing that government can implement the things they say want to do, that they can turn around the economic situation, he said.Rusike explained that the relationship between the wealth and economic growth, sees the ratings agency consider the country s wealth levels when assessing the country s growth potentialThe slowing pace of growth, since the financial crisis, has coincided with challenging macroeconomic conditions and the depreciation of the rand, which has seen wealth levels decline in dollar terms, he said. The National Treasury s projected R23 billion shortfall in revenue in the current financial year, a result of weak economic growth on tax collection, is also of concern. However, plans to cut government s expenditure ceiling by R26 billion, as laid out in the mid-term budget policy statement, should limit the extent of the fiscal deficit. In as much as there may have been some deterioration in the targets laid out last week, compared to February, the Deterioration is still within acceptable thresholds. But if we continue to see pressure on economic growth, it potentially means that there could be some downward revisions on economic growth and there could then be some adjustments on the fiscal deficit targets, which may mean the pushing out of debt stabilisation, he said.Treasury s consolidated budget deficit for the current financial year is projected at 3.4% of GDP, while the economy is expected to grow by 0.5% in 2016.S&amp;P also flagged debt-burdened State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) as a contingent risk for government finances and the sovereign credit rating. Rusike said broad governance reforms and political will &#8211; not just financial support from Treasury &#8211; is necessary to put beleaguered SOEs on a stable financial path. At BBB-, S&amp;P lists South Africa s credit rating one notch above sub-investment grade with a negative outlook. It is expected to publish a review on December 2.