Most people who have visited a government department describe the experience along the lines of inefficient, laid-back and lacking customer-focus. There are obviously exceptions, but this is usually the overall impression. Correcting an error on your utility bill or being shunted around at Home Affairs ranks on par with a dentist s appointment for a root canal. Something to be avoided at all costs.On the other hand, in comparison, the private sector is held up as a beacon of efficiency and customer-focus. But is this true and, if so, what are the underlying reasons?Government sector remunerationTypically, the government sector remuneration is lower than the private sector. The bonuses paid in the government sector also pale in comparison to the private sector. As an example, the president of South Africa is paid around R3 million per annum while heads of large companies can easily earn in the region of R50 million per annum. Sasol, MTN and Shoprite executives have all received such remuneration.Senior government employees are also often expected to serve for a finite period and for the well-being of the community. It seems that relatively low paid government executives delivering underperformance is preferred to highly paid, performing ones. In such an environment if the primary objective is personal wealth creation, then it is likely that some of these employees would simultaneously seek alternative methods to maximise their income during this limited period. But is it a plausible argument that lower remuneration is driving incorrect behaviour and lower output?Initiative vs IncentivesThe essence of the matter is understanding the motive driving people to complete their tasks to the best of their ability. Rarely categorised as such but there are essentially only two kinds of motivations; external or internal. Incentives are external whereas initiative emanates from within.The internal incentive simply means the primary objective is working towards a purpose or a goal wider than the individual. The wider the beneficiaries the less self-centred the goal. A narrow objective would be focussing on maximising one s own remuneration whilst wider motives could be the sales of the company or the satisfaction of the customer. Further widening the objectives could be strengthening of the sector or improving the performance of the national economy. The golden rule is the objectives must be at least one degree wider than the individual s self-interest.External motivations are salary, bonuses and other tangible rewards. The proverbial carrot dangling in front of the donkey driving it forward. The private sector has a high degree of external motivation in the form of incentives. The result is short-term satisfaction.Neutralisation occurs and very soon these employees are looking for more remuneration once the rush of higher rewards has worn off. Soon the donkey needs two carrots to perform the same work. Short-term decisions are made to maximise their gain with catastrophic results and the closing and demise of once large and powerful business houses. The 2008 global financial crisis is one such example after which banking incentive structures were even capped. Anglo American under the stewardship of Harry Oppenheimer weathered many storms becoming a South African behemoth only to fall under later professional managers. Was it because he had a wider goal of building a sustainable mining industry which was probably not the primary goal of his successors?It is common sense that the tailor passionately working towards making his customer look good will sew an infinitely better garment than one who is working primarily for the money.LeadershipAnother indicator of the success of an organisation is the apex leader. The attitude and tone set by the chairperson will permeate to all levels. This is true in the home, company, multi-national or government. Astute investors always consider the management before making a final decision. It goes beyond the technical competence of the management team but their ethics and attitude as well. Mark Zuckerberg, Sergey Brin, Larry Page, Elon Musk, Warren Buffett, Steve Jobs and Bill Gates have demonstrated the importance of the correct leader and having a wider primary objective. This does not mean they were not interested in being wealthy but their primary focus was beyond themselves. This resulted in immense personal wealth as a by-product.An assessment of any organisation on the Selfish Index will provide a rough assessment of its likely long-term success:Focus of Apex Leader* x Focus of Employees* = (0 to 100)A higher score indicates the wider the objectives held by these two variables the more likely long-term success.Action requiredBoth government and the private sector are focussed on external incentives with the private sector providing more incentives. As such, in the short-term the private sector will seem more successful but also experience spectacular failures because of short-term decisions.Continuing the primary focus on external motivations will ensure boom-bust cycles, labour disputes and employee dissatisfaction. Internal motivation will drive long-term success. However, incentive structures cannot be changed overnight and the aim over time should be:According to British philosopher James Allen, &#8220;the outer conditions of a person s life will always be found to be harmoniously related to his inner state. Man imagine that thought can be kept secret but it cannot, it rapidly crystallises into habit and habit solidifies into circumstance.&#8221;*Out of 10; 0 = Narrowest, 10 = Widest