Let me begin by saying this: I m not a professional photographer. I have a slightly better-than-101 understanding of how cameras work and why things such as sensor size and f-stops matter. Looking at tech specs is far from my idea of an engaging read.As a travel editor, I do love taking pictures, though. And I take tons of them thousands and thousands on any given trip, almost entirely on smartphones. I take my Instagram game seriously and occasionally have images published here, on the very site you re reading. For years, I ve been so dependent on mobile photography that I ve committed to carrying around two phones one, an Android, that s easier to type on, and the other, an iPhone, that has stronger apps and a killer camera.For the last few weeks, I carried three: Google s Pixel, the iPhone 7 Plus, and the Moto Z, the latest entrants to the mobile photography race. (The Moto has flown largely under the radar, but its key selling point is its compatibility with magnetic &#8220;mods&#8221; that include a portable speaker and an attachable Hasselblad 4116 True Zoom camera.) We are living in the first true golden era of smartphone photography.But that&#8217;s not why you&#8217;re here. You want to know which one is the best.And, well, that answer is a bit complicated after five head-to-head layman s tests, where I focused on experience and results (hardware specs be damned), I&#8217;d be happy with any of them. This is not a cop-out as much it is a recognition that I m probably a lot like you when it comes to my smartphone camera: All I want is for it to take good pictures, quickly, clearly, and without much effort. If I wanted a real camera, I&#8217;d get one of these new mirrorless, DSLR, and rugged models. But with my phone, as long as I can compose a decent shot whenever there s a great subject in view, and whatever the given situation is, I d like to think my phone can meet me the rest of the way.Here&#8217;s how each performed against key selling points. All you have to do is determine your top priorities before your next upgrade. &nbsp;If You Need &#8230; Auto-FocusThe idea of never missing a shot is what really drives mobile photography; it s why every phone has shortcuts for opening the camera app. But that quick-draw image is no good unless it s in focus. My auto-focus tests were conducted both in daylight and at dusk, with both fast-moving and still subjects.Winner: The iPhone 7 Plus won for crispest images across the board. Even when I was snapping from the window of a moving car, it managed to deliver beautifully defined shots of the Manhattan skyline one frame after the next.(Very Close) Runners-up: The Pixel more or less flopped from the moving car window, but take out the fast-moving subject, and man, does that phone shine. In both daylight and low light, the auto-focus performed faster than those of its competitors, never taking more than a second to go from blur to fab.The Moto Z fell in between. Two out of three frames on the Manhattan bridge came out clearly; everywhere else, I really appreciated the fact that the Hasselblad attachment lets you trigger its autofocus with a halfway press of the shutter button, just as on a real camera. It s way easier than repeatedly touching the screen and makes one-handed shooting a breeze.&nbsp;If You Need &#8230; Low Light HandlingLuckily for the purposes of my experiment, I was able to head to the Great Jack O&#8217;Lantern Blaze, a spooky pumpkin festival in the Hudson Valley, ahead of the Halloween weekend, with all three phones in tow.Winner: The Pixel no contest. It did a commanding job of focusing quickly in low light and offering warm (but accurate) color balance. It had a stronger dynamic range, by far, which is what kept the red foliage in check in the background. You ll also be thankful for these features in dimly lit restaurants.Runners-up: While the MotoZ offered color that felt truer to life, the iPhone7 offered a sharper low-light image.&nbsp;If You Need &#8230; a Powerful ZoomUsually, if I need a great zoom, I m not relying on my smartphone. But that s starting to change. Both the MotoZ (with its Hasselblad attachment) and the iPhone 7 Plus have a 10x zoom capability, whereas the Pixel is limited to 4x.Winner: MotoZ, which I was able to use to get a crisp shot of the third-floor lettering on the side of an Upper East Side Synagogue from across the street. That s because the attachable camera has a proper optical zoom lens that you won t find on any other phone camera not just a digital zoom that works by tightening the crop of your shot. The difference here was palpable.Runner-up: The iPhone still has an exceptional zoom capacity even if its 10x range is purely digital. But pushing it to the edge means you re likely to get a blurry shot. That s still better than the Pixel, whose zoom fell flat by comparison.&nbsp;If You Need &#8230; Great PortraitsPets and babies: They re two of the most common subjects for smartphone photographers. So even if you re not getting beautiful street style portraits, this is a feature that you ll use on the regular.Winner: The iPhone 7 Plus has a portrait mode that is designed to deliver flattering depth of field. (Read: Your background is softened while your subject is in clear view.) The result is really as beautiful as they make it sound. Getting there requires a little legwork, but thankfully, the phone will coach you through it: It tells you if you need more light or more distance from your subject. Sometimes you re straight out of luck. But when it works, it really works wonders.Runners-up: Even though the MotoZ has two dedicated portrait modes (one for night portraits and the other to correct backlighting), I struggled to capture my dog s eyes or to get fully focused shots of her face. The Pixel, meanwhile, has no fancy portrait mode. But remember that excellent auto-correct? It helps deliver lovely portrait shots in a pinch.&nbsp;If You Need &#8230; Macro ModePlease forgive me: I took a bite of one cookie before I found my favorite composition. (It was delicious and fresh out of the oven.)Winner(s): The MotoZ, maybe, by a hair. The three images are almost identical. That s why I conducted a follow-up test, albeit a less visually interesting one: shooting the backside of a coin. I got the tightest shot with the MotoZ, with the iPhone coming in as a close second place. The Pixel struggled. Good thing nobody needs photos of a penny, anyway. 2016 Bloomberg