New research by financial services firm Liberty reveals that most small and medium enterprises (SMEs) do not understand the cyclicality of their businesses.Of the 76 SMEs polled by the firm in a customer check-in , only 48% reported understanding their business cycle and using this information to adjust their savings levels in accordance with good and bad cycles. How do you know if you should put away money in the good times, if you don t know when the good times are? Pay attention to your finances on a month-to-month basis and understand the historic finances as well. Once you ve been up and running for a couple of years, you re going to start see which months you re doing better and which months are bit tougher. Checking the monthly trends will help you see when to put money away, advised Arno Loots, Head of Umbrella Solutions at Liberty Corporate.According to the research 63% of SMEs have debt, with only 61% currently saving on a monthly basis. To save, the SMEs survey opted for teleconferences in lieu of meetings with clients, they also focused on efficiency, negotiated discounts with suppliers and cut travel and office expenses such as stationery.Now, 71% of SMEs believe that their businesses are run better than a year ago. Still, economic uncertainty, finding the right employees and government regulation are causes for concern.Loots explained that concerns about economic uncertainty at 38% and finding the right employees at 37% were more or less even as some companies find it difficult to recruit people and train them to their skill level. He added that benefits and incentives such as retirement plans, bonuses and medical aid may go some way in helping to retain skilled employees. SMEs also ranked these benefits as important, with 87% currently offering retirement plans, 63% offering bonuses and 42% offering medical aid. The research also found that 97% of the SMEs approached by employees with requests for small loans or salary advances provided such assistance. Employers care a lot more about their employees than we think. They re not these businesses that try to get every ounce off their people without giving back, Loot said.The financial pressure on individuals was also reflect in the financial services firm s survey of its members.Two thirds of the members polled feel negatively about their current financial situation and are unlikely to seek help over the next year. Their most important priorities include taking care of everyday needs such as rent or bonds and groceries, and repaying debt.Only 6% of its members do not have any debt while 73% are currently saving in order to pay off debt.To help with debt, 86% of individuals draw up budgets but only 59% realistically stick to them. Finance is about discipline and sticking to the limits that you set for yourself but like anything in life, sometimes sticking to the limits and being disciplined is difficult, said Loots. The research also uncovered a discrepancies between what members are concerned with, namely paying off debt and saving for the future, and what financial advisers think members should be advised about.The 115 financial advisers polled, think members need advice on investing wisely and planning for the future as well as general financial education. Members focus more on getting their day-to-day living expenses and short-term family needs covered, and the financial adviser focuses more on the longer-term. I think that that s natural, he said.Loots added that financial advisers may be underestimating the value they can add to their clients in terms of budgeting. That s where everything starts. Once you start helping your clients with budgeting, you can also start finding the money you need for savings, he explained.