Artificial intelligence, natural language processing, machine learning, chatbots, these are the tools that will make accessing services affordable for the 4 billion people who are expected to connect to the internet in the next five to ten years. There are 7 billion people in the world and 3 billion are currently connected. Our vision is that the remainder will soon be part of this joined up world, but they will be using technology in ways that empower them in all aspects of their lives, says Gustav Praekelt, self-confessed tech geek and founder of the Praekelt Group.The group, which has a for-profit as well as a not-for-profit arm, uses open source mobile technologies to deliver essential information and inclusive services to millions of people around the world, especially in Africa.He was addressing a group of people at a breakfast organised by medical aid company Bestmed, which is hosting discussions with thought leaders on subjects from the millennial generation to how technology can solve social problems.What excites him now is the ability of technology like artificial intelligence and chatbots (computer programs designed to simulate conversation with human users, especially over the Internet) to provide personalised, interactive communication at scale.Communication as we knew it is changing. Out are conventional voice calls and in are messaging solutions like Snapchat and Instagram. Consider the fact that Facebook s mobile messenger has 1 billion monthly active users worldwide, making it one of the most-used chat apps on the planet. Users send 60 billion messages per day using messenger more than three times the global daily SMS volume.In response to the advent of this new technology, Praekelt has launched a chatbot for MomConnect, the groundbreaking maternal health care platform developed by the company for the Department of Health, and funded by USAID and others.In South Africa maternal health is a big issue with preventable deaths of mothers and young children well ahead of global norms. MomConnect is aimed at pregnant women and their infants, and was launched in 2014. It sends young women content-rich SMS messages linked to the stage of pregnancy or the infant s age. For instance if a mother has a 4-6 month old baby the messages will contain information on introducing solid foods to their diet. We are looking for specific outcomes, and are clear that we want to change behaviour, says Praekelt.The system is unusual in that it allows users to rate the services at the clinics, and to complement nurses directly when the care is good. Similarly nurses are able to use the system to provide feedback on their working conditions. What is becoming clear is that the more we empower people, the more engaged they are, the better the health outcomes. In late November the minister of Health, Aaron Motsoaledi announced that the millionth mother had joined the programme which is supported by 95% of South Africa&#8217;s clinics.The cost per mother is $2.40. Of this the bulk is spent on network operators. This cost will come down as more users move across to whatsapp and other data-driven message services.The cost is less of a problem than ever before, says Praekelt. But the popularity of this mode has introduced another problem volume. A million mothers generate a lot of traffic &#8211; ten to twenty thousand messages a day which you cannot moderate by hand. The rise of artificial intelligence and deep learning and machine learning is allowing us to start responding automatically. Thus in July Praekelt and the DoH launched a chatbot for Messenger that is integrated into the MomConnect programme.Bots like this unlock the ability to provide personalised, interactive communication that feels the same as talking to a human customer service or sales rep, but at scale for much cheaper than call centers. Bots don t get tired or irritable. If fact the greater the volume in the call centre, the better they perform. Technology advances to solve social challenges will not stop there.Natural language processing, which is the ability of a computer program to understand human speech as it is spoken, is the next big wave of interaction says Praekelt possibly as big as the introduction of the web and the mobile phone. One of the big challenges we face is literacy. These new technologies are allowing humans to interface with machines in a way that is far more natural and comfortable. The interfaces we use on our computers are pretty, but bear in mind the Mac OS [Apple&#8217;s desktop and server operating system] is based on a type of Unix which was developed in the 1970 s. The interfaces we use are ancient and are not intuitive to most people. We think that the tech changes that are coming will transform communication as we know it. This article was sponsored by Bestmed