Africa is open for business.Home to some of the fastest growing economies in the world, the continent s fast growing population and rapid urbanisation present compelling opportunities for businesses.Those that ignore Africa may be doing so at their peril, as do those that adopt a one-size fits all approach to operating on the content. There is no such thing as Africa. There are a whole lot of countries on the African continent, and they re very different and very diverse. So, it s very dangerous to talk about Africa in global terms, cautioned Terry Meyer, an author and skills development expert on Africa.So, in which countries should you consider operating?According to Lee Naik, head of digital at Accenture, countries investing heavily in ICT infrastructure and establishing smart cities offer promise.Speaking at the Standard Bank Africa Calling business breakfast, he said that Kenya is the leader in fibre to the business connection (FTTB), with the scale of South Africa s investments expected to lead to a more than 70% increase in FTTB by 2021.Based on the rolling out of fibre and smart city plans, Naik suggested in investing in the likes Kenya, Ghana, Egypt, Uganda, Burundi, Botswana, Nigeria and Mauritius. An increase in fibre generally correlates with an increase in quality of internet, meaning consistent connectivity in the country. As we start to digitise the way we run businesses, good connectivity will allow us to come up with new business models New age business &#8211; that aren t trying to take old constructs or old products and put them forward &#8211; that try to digitise assets and find new sources of revenue that consider a mobile connected citizen group, Naik said.The digital revolution is helping relevant emerging brands compete with incumbents across the continent, added Jeremy Sampson of Brand Finance Africa.Sampson said companies wishing to expand into the rest of the Africa must develop sound business and brand plans. He said brand specific legal issues such as company and product names, colours, shapes, tag lines and even sounds and smells must be registered with the relevant authorities before trading. Make sure you register as much as possible. If they re not registered, if they re not trademarked, they re not yours. It s as simple as that, he said.Apart from building trust and integrity in African markets, he said companies must decide whether they want to present themselves as local or global. Do you have your website as .co.za, so everyone knows you re South African, or do you have it as .com, so people don t know where you re from? Do you want to be proudly South African? Sometimes, that s not a good thing because up in Africa a lot people think South Africans are arrogant, he said, adding that operating anywhere outside South Africa makes local companies international.Another challenge of operating outside South Africa is finding the right, suitably qualified staff complement. According to Meyer, companies that wish to succeed should employ a mix of expats, which understand the company, and locals. They should also aim to build local management teams and focus on skills development to attract and retain talent.This article was sponsored by Standard Bank.