Tencent Holdings Ltd. s growing appetite for spending on new businesses helped fuel a stronger-than-expected rise in revenue despite a weakening Chinese economy.Asia s largest internet company ratcheted up spending by 69% in the third quarter to bankroll forays into content, cloud computing, online finance and video-streaming. That in turn drove a faster-than-anticipated 52% rise in revenue to 40.4 billion yuan ($5.9 billion) for the operator of social media phenomenon Wechat.Naspers owns a significant stake in Tencent. At 16:26 the share was up 3.19% at R2 134.95.Like arch-rival Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., Tencent is intent on exploring new businesses beyond its traditional stronghold, hoping to counter a long-term deceleration of the world s second largest economy. It s building data centres to offer cloud services to corporate clients, developing an online finance operation, and amassing a content library to underpin a Netflix-like video streaming site. All that comes at a cost. Tencent s margins were weaker mostly because of its expansion into new business, including payments and cloud, said Li Muzhi, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Arete Research Services LLP.Net income grew 43% to 10.6 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) in the three months ended September, the Shenzhen-based company said Wednesday. But that came in slightly below the 10.7 billion-yuan average of analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg.The company s efforts are beginning to show. Revenue from its others segment &#8211; which includes payments and the cloud &#8211; more than quadrupled to 4.96 billion yuan in the quarter. Cloud services alone more than tripled after more enterprise customers signed on, particularly from the games, video and on-demand industries.This year, Tencent signalled its willingness to spend by agreeing to acquire control of Clash of Clans studio Supercell Oy for $8.6 billion. It s said to have budgeted at least $295 million this year and next to invest in movies in China and Hollywood. It s also buying the rights to anime, comics and novels to convert into movies and mobile games. The company has aspirations to create a Marvel-like movie empire, as it competes with Alibaba and Baidu Inc. for viewers.Last quarter, overall costs reached 18.6 billion yuan. That led to a narrowing of its gross margins to 54% from more than 58% a year ago, according to Bloomberg calculations. We continue to invest heavily in a number of our strategic products, Tencent President Martin Lau said during an earnings call. The company is pouring money into games, cloud and app-installment promotions, he added.For now, Tencent s bottom line still depends on engaging a Chinese internet population that s 710 million strong, on selling in-game items and &#8211; increasingly &#8211; ads to those users. Its WeChat messaging app has become the dominant force in social media, allowing it to market not just virtual goods and game subscriptions but also online payments and on-demand services like taxi bookings. WeChat had 846 million monthly active users &#8211; more than twice Twitter Inc. s, for context &#8211; and the mobile version of QQ had 647 million users at the end of the quarter.Sales rose 52% to 40.4 billion yuan, compared with estimates for 39 billion yuan. Of that, revenue from smartphone games jumped 87% to 9.9 billion yuan in the quarter, driven by non-casual titles such as Honour of Kings. But the core business may be slowing: mobile game sales rose just 3% from the previous quarter. Big brands have also throttled back on traditional online advertising due to macroeconomic uncertainty and headwinds, said James Mitchell, Tencent s chief strategy officer. However, he sees them shifting to performance-based ads that track the effectiveness of campaigns. Tencent has helped brands including BMW run promotions via WeChat Moments, a service similar to Facebook s news-feed where users browse photos, videos and stories posted by friends.It recorded adjusted earnings-per-share of 1.24 yuan for the third quarter, compared with the 1.26 yuan average of estimates. Its shares rose 1.9% to HK$196.90 in Hong Kong before earnings were announced. The stock has gained 29% this year, compared with a 12% rise for New York-listed Alibaba. The revenue exceeded expectation mostly because of robust game and strong content revenue, said Naoshi Nema, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in Hong Kong. Other business including payment related and cloud services showed strong growth too. 2016 Bloomberg L.P