The listing of Dis-Chem in early November seemed to capture the retail investor market s attention like nothing before for one very simple reason: practically everyone knows and understands the business. It s understandable, then, that there s been an outsize outcry because no-one aside from selected institutions received a share allocation. And many, many had applied via brokers (who qualified) and who had made this available to their clients.We re likely going to see a repeat of this performance when Liberty Two Degrees lists in early December. Again, this is being run as a private placement to invited investors only. Sure, some brokerages will once again try their luck and apply for an allocation (and, in turn, make these shares available to their clients). Invited investors will know by today, November 29, whether they ve been allocated any shares.And, again, this business is one that most investors will understand: a property company (technically, a real estate investment trust) will interests in iconic assets . What s particularly peculiar in Liberty Two Degrees case is that the roadshow investor presentation is far more detailed than usual and it wouldn t be a stretch to see this as the foundation of a presentation and marketing collateral to a far broader retail market.Yes, making shares available to the public (retail market) is a pain! But why would the country s largest big-box pharmacy group and an entity with stakes in Sandton City, Nelson Mandela Square, Eastgate and Melrose Arch not want to take their offers to a far broader retail base, with some first-time investors too? Not only would they score valuable publicity from the listing process, they d have a far more diverse shareholder spread than the usual suspects: the top five/eight/ten institutions.Think of the big, successful public offers in recent years (which have tended to be BEE offers), like Vodacom s Yebo Yethu, MTN Zakhele and Multichoice s Phuthuma Nathi. Taking these to the public (albeit qualifying BBBEE investors) all served to achieve one crucial purpose: this broadened the investor base in the country! In fact, given that these were all limited to BEE investors, black South Africans many who had never even considered investing before became investors and profited from the IPOs. In 2014, notably, Advanced Health listed on the JSE s Alt-X via a public offer.Of course, for every handful of successful IPOs that were actually public (not private placements), there is likely at least one disappointment. Who can forget golf estate developer Acc-Ross which listed in the boom in 2006, complete with billboards featuring CEO Jaco Verster plastered all over Joburg? (The company s share price collapsed completely soon after listing, it merged with Pinnacle Point at some point and then properly failed, leaving some banks with more than few golf estates on their books.)Listings inviting the public to apply for shares cost a lot more than private placement (which is effectively a roadshow to a few fund managers, mostly in the Cape, dressed up as a far more elaborate process). Aside from needing to publish a formal prospectus (more nuanced than a pre-listing statement), companies making a public offer are subject to a host of additional requirements, mostly legal. And there are the marketing costs, which have to be incurred if you want to reach as wide a base as possible. And, having retail investors in on a listing (again, true public participation, not private clients placements via brokers) is complicated, often frustrating (some people will apply for a few dozen shares because that s what they can afford) and hence more time-consuming. These types of listings take months, versus weeks.So, they re more complicated and costly. The blame can t only be laid at Dis-Chem s and Liberty Two Degrees doors, however. What is the JSE doing to encourage companies to not simply go the private placement route? I d argue very little at all (if anything).In a stumbling economy and with competition imminent, wouldn t the exchange be trying to get any listing it could, no matter how it arrives?Here s a thought: why doesn t the JSE structure its listing-related fees asynchronously? Go the usual route with a dozen institutions and pay substantially more than the published schedule of fees currently indicates (keep the market cap-related structure). After all, the shareholders effectively pay these fees. Broaden your base to, say, 10000 investors and pay very little in listing fees. Run a true public offer (perhaps with some hurdles like a minimum number of first-time investors) and list without paying the JSE fees at all In effect, private placements will subsidise public offers.The one problem is that although these JSE-related fees are not insignificant (typically in the low-to-mid hundreds of thousands of rands), they pale in comparison to those of investment banks and lawyers. What about going a step further and offering rebates on annual listing fees for a period of time (five years?) for those companies who run proper broad-based public offers?The JSE paid half a billion rand in (2015, final) dividends to its shareholders in the first half of this year. It does not need a million rand in fees per new listing, especially if it s growing the pool of investors in South Africa.Quite why one of the few real routes for millions of South Africans to build wealth remains blocked to all but invited institutional investors is a mystery. The exchange and companies listing on it are all complicit.&nbsp;* Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at hilton@moneyweb.co.za.