The US election is imminent, with voters and observers alike looking on with bated breath. In recent weeks, the odds favouring a win for GOP candidate Donald Trump have lengthened, although he regained some ground over the weekend following a new FBI announcement about Hillary Clinton s email server. He is seen to have lost in all three TV debates to Clinton and revelations about his alleged abuse of women have caused revulsion in many quarters, even within the Republican Party. Following the two party conventions in July, Trump s odds had widened, but then the gap started to narrow again as his campaign management was briefly able to convince him to pitch himself as more presidential, so as to capture the middle road. By mid-September the polling gap between the two candidates had disappeared. But things started to unravel for Trump after the first presidential debate on September 26 and it was widely agreed in the media that Clinton had won. Trump recovered slightly in the second debate on October 4, but any advantage he may have gained was undone when, on October 7, the Washington Post released a video and article about a lewd conversation between TV anchor Billy Bush and Trump in 2005. Following that, a number of women went public, accusing Trump of groping and sexual assault. After the final debate on October 9, opinion showed another win for Clinton. Poll surveys like USA Today s Poll Tracker currently show Clinton with a 3.5% lead, down from the 5% plus recorded before the weekend s FBI release concerning her emails. While the polls tell one story, another likely more telling indicator is the probability survey, for example from the likes of Nate Silver s FiveThirtyEight.com. This way of looking at the potential outcome is based on a granular assessment of each candidate s likely win in each of the 50 states plus District of Columbia. This is based on the fact that the presidential vote is not simply determined by nationwide popular support. With a couple of small exceptions, if a candidate gets the majority of votes in a state, she/he gets all its electoral votes, effectively winning the state. Electoral votes are determined by population size. So California, being the most populous, gets 53 electoral votes (out of the national total of 538), with Texas (36) second, New York and Florida (27) third and so on. The winner is the candidate with at least 50% of the total electoral vote i.e. 270 out of 538. Looked at this way, Clinton s path to victory is enhanced. Of the most populous states, only Texas and Georgia look certain to go to Trump. The rest look to be Clinton s with the exception of Ohio, where the probability for each candidate has hovered on either side of 50%. With 18 electoral votes, Ohio is key: every winner since 1960 has carried the state, so attention will be intently focused on the outcome there on November 9. There are other key swing states like Florida and North Carolina, but on the basis of the electoral vote analysis, FiveThirtyEight.com has consistently given Clinton a 75% plus chance of winning since the debates and the Billy Bush interview controversy came to light. Another indicator of the likely outcome are the odds from the betting shops. Currently Clinton is priced at around 1-3 against Trump at 3-1. These odds have followed a similar course to the poll-trackers in recent months, with Trump at one point as narrow as 2-1 before his campaign faltered, pushing him out to 5-1. Again, the weekend news about the FBI and Clinton s emails has caused Trump s odds to tighten somewhat. Of course, a lot could still change in the few days leading up to the election but for now Clinton looks to have a reasonably solid lead. However, investors are nervous because the odds in favour of Brexit were 3-1 versus 1-3 for Remain just before the UK referendum on June 23. The single exit poll released after the voting booths closed still had Brexit at 48-52. But on balance, given her lead in the polls and the electoral college overlay, it seems that Clinton should make it, although she is very unlikely to score a landslide, or even in excess of 50% of the popular vote, as other big winners like FDR, Richard Nixon and Lyndon Johnson did. One of the concerns of the Clinton camp is that many potential Democratic voters will be too complacent to turn up at the polls, in comparison with more ideologically charged and passionate Trump supporters. Interestingly, Hillary Clinton s husband, Bill, beat Bob Dole in 1996 with just 49% of the popular vote and a voter turnout (also 49%) that was the second lowest in the 20th century. A win for Clinton would likely be fairly neutral for markets initially and increase the likelihood that the US Federal Reserve will hike the Fedfunds rate by 25 basis points in December. Down the track, Clinton will push for higher taxes on the wealthy and some form of fiscal stimulus. But without victory in the House, she will have a hard time pushing legislation through. On the other hand, a Trump victory would not be taken well in markets, at the very least leading to increased volatility. Trump is anti-global trade, anti-immigration, anti-Janet Yellen and a threat to geo-politics. Also, he is not sure himself of what he stands for and his advisors are not well known either for their policy stances or their track records. A loose cannon like Trump in the Oval Office of the world s most powerful nation is a disturbing thought.Graham Bell is an Equities Strategist with Old Mutual Investment Group.