The macroeconomic and political environment in which companies have gone about their normal course of business over the past year leaves no doubt that South African business is resilient. As is the assiduousness of those advisory firms who undertake, in these interesting times, to bring together parties in the mergers and acquisitions (M&amp;A) process.The changing complexities of M&amp;A, the inclusion of parties across countries and multiple time zones have led, in the last ten years, to the rise of virtual data rooms, now an integral part of M&amp;A transactions. The benefits are immense; not only do they provide a way of tracking M&amp;A activity flow but ever-expanding data can be managed in a simple, intuitive and secure platform, shared by multiple parties in a way that not only saves time but improves efficiency and enhances security.Ansarada managing director Middle East &amp; Africa, Arie Maree, says one can see from activity in the virtual data rooms just how sensitive the deal-making process can be to the macro economic situation locally. 2016, he says, has seen a healthy pipeline of deals but the broader sentiment has been to hang on, adopting a wait and see attitude. In the first half of this year about 50% of deals using virtual data rooms closed but there was a noticeable downturn in the quarter ended September with the number of transactions closing, down at 30%. This, he says, is a direct correlation with the macroeconomic environment.The legal outcome of politically influenced events this week are an indication that the country still enjoys institutional strength and while that is a definite plus for investors, the digestion of the latest news regarding the State of Capture report by many investors reflect a continued wait-and-see approach.Notwithstanding this, total deal value, as captured by DealMakers, by JSE listed companies for the nine months to end-September topped R375 billion against just under R298 billion for the same period in 2015. A number of big ticket deals helped buoy total value though the number of deals declined from 353 to 331 for the period.Christo Els, senior partner at Webber Wentzel says while the industry is way off the heydays of buying and selling, last seen before the global financial crisis, there still remains a good pipeline of deals. While some will not make it to market, the ongoing negotiations taking place are very positive.On the type of transactions, Maree says the lion s share has been traditional M&amp;A such as restructuring, disposals, share for share sales. In terms of industry specific sectors, mining, manufacturing and fast moving consumer goods have been the most evident.SA corporates, in a bid to increase returns, continue to look offshore. Some have sought foreign listing to improve the ability to raise capital for foreign acquisitions while others have acquired assets with the help of cleverly structured deals. The weakness in the pound following the fallout from Brexit has also piqued the interest of these players.Of the top 10 deals reported &#8211; amounting to R222,8 billion or 60% of all transaction values in the year ended September &#8211; eight were foreign domiciled and accounted for R193 billion. Steinhoff International, now categorised as foreign with a primary listing on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, has been particularly active this year with 6 deals of which only one was the acquisition of a local asset and two of which fell in the top 10 by value. Other secondary listed companies included Anheuser-Busch InBev (2 deals), Glencore (2 deals), Anglo American and Intu Properties.What is clear Maree says is that companies have become cost sensitive which has necessitated that Ansarada explore and innovate the process to accommodate clients changing needs. There has been a definite trend towards cutting waste; transactions are more tightly managed with deadlines being adhered to more diligently. Data rooms have become smaller; companies are no longer storing massive data sizes but rather trimming data to what is absolutely necessary.According to Maree, the due diligence process used to take three to six weeks but this has increased to around eight weeks as parties become more careful and more hands on. Flexibility has become key. The ability to switch on the room on a need basis has become significant. Companies have become reluctant to be tied into a long agreement. Rather what s needed is, for example, a two month initial period, switching on again when warranties are received.M&amp;A activity in the mining sector has picked up this year which is encouraging but activity remains subdued. This is partly explained by the difficulty to pinpoint quality assets but also by the perception of foreign investors that political interference influences the allocation of licences. The recent controversy around mineral resources minister Mosebanzi Zwane and lack of policy certainty have done little to change this belief.Despite this, Els sees a bottoming out of the commodity cycle, which he says, has seen an uptick in M&amp;A activity in the sector. Announcements of the intention to dispose of non-core assets by large mining companies such as Gencore and Rio Tinto have added to this increased interest. Buyers are coming to the party well prepared and deals are being cleverly structured.Local mining companies are focused on re-looking at capital allocations in the search for growth within existing portfolio of assets. With capital discipline top of mind expansion projects have been reconfigured into more modest but scalable projects, with investments justified in line with market demand. The concern may be that while this approach has short-term gains it could risk future production growth.Analysis and ranking by DealMakers of M&amp;A activity of each South African advisory firm (in relation to JSE listed companies) is reflected below. The results are in respect of the first three quarter of 2016.General Corporate Finance activity &#8211; which encompasses, amongst others, share issues, equity capital raising, repurchases, restructuring, unbundlings and listings by JSE listed companies &#8211; was valued at R3,6 trillion (R428 million in 2015).The numbers are heavily skewed by several big listings &#8211; AB InBev (R3,1 trillion) and three property companies, UK s Hammerson (R91,6 billion) and Polish property companies Echo Polka Properties (R13,5bn) and Global Trade Centre (R11,6 billion). Remove listings in general corporate finance for both 2015 and 2016 and year on year analysis is much the same. During the year the industry saw unbundlings by two large companies. Bidvest listed and distributed to shareholders its global food business Bidcorp (R101,9 billion) and Pick n Pay Holdings distributed to shareholders its 52,7% (R17,6 billion) stake in Pick n Pay Stores in a collapse of its pyramid structure and delisting of PnP Holdings.JSE listed companies were active in the equity capital markets raising R114 billion. Interestingly this compares with the low levels in 2011 2013 where equity raised was on average a modest R48 billion each year. Els recalls the days prior to 2007 where, he says, capital raising had a negative connotation and so fewer companies engaged in this form of raising funds. With the financial crisis in 2008 companies went to market in a rescue type scenario.However, in the last few years this negative connotation has changed. Capital raising is now often linked to acquisitions which has a far more positive spin. With investors looking for better returns than that offered on cash, focus is on the potential provided by investing in equities.Advisory firm rankings in the activities of general corporate finance for the first three quarters of 2016 are as follows: