As the race for the White House winds down, major polls suggest the US election outcome is now too close to call.Democrat Hillary Clinton remains the favourite but her lead over Republican Donald Trump has narrowed after the FBI decision to reopen an investigation into her email correspondence via a private server as Secretary of State. The relatively high proportion of undecided voters and the historically high disapproval ratings for both candidates means that her lead is within what could be an elevated margin of error, said Capital Economics Paul Ashworth. We have learnt from the recent Brexit polls that nothing is certain in the current political and market environments, added Shaun Murison, a senior analyst at IG South Africa. Like Brexit, analysts say a negative election outcome or quite simply Trump presiding over the world s largest economy will send shockwaves through financial markets. A Trump win still remains fairly unlikely but will create confusion as a lot of his policies are nonsensical to the point of insanity and may even result in a secular shift, said Mark Wilkes, head of risk at Purple Group.He said the dollar, the world s primary reserve currency, will depreciate against other major currencies on the back of a Trump victory, with emerging market currencies such as the rand and safe haven assets like gold receiving a lift.A victory for Clinton, which would represent a continuation of current US economic and trade policies, is likely to spur a relief rally in the dollar as well as other major currencies. There is a 60% probability that the rand will appreciate against the dollar regardless of who wins the election, Wilkes said.Gold is also likely to benefit from either election scenario. A Trump win could equate to geopolitical risks and a sudden sharp move in the safe haven asset of gold. A Clinton win could equate to a more accommodative rate environment &#8211; although a hike is expected this year &#8211; for a longer period to support a more gradual move in the commodity, Murison explained.However, movements in equity markets will hinge on the outcome. Stateside equity markets are likely to rise 3% on a Clinton win and fall around 7% on a Trump victory, said Wilkes. A Trump win would result in a dramatic buying opportunity but I wouldn t buy on this dip as it will introduce too many unknown factors, he said. He said it may be wiser to sell on the spike from a Clinton win rather than buying on the dip from a Trump win. If we put our recent domestic issues one side for a moment, the market reaction to US politics thus far has shown that South Africa will be affected regardless of the outcome. Volatility is expected to increase which will leave equities in general very exposed, particularly those interest rate sensitive securities, said Claudius Rostoll from Trofin Asset Management.In the wake of a Trump victory, emerging markets would be seen as a riskier asset class and likely be under an elevated amount of pressure initially, said Murison. He explained that the republican candidate may push for a rise in US interest rates, which he believes are artificially low, and the removal of Janet Yellen as chair of the Federal Reserve whereas Clinton would likely allow for continued accommodative monetary policy. Emerging market assets have drawn investors, chasing high yields, away from the US and other emerging markets with low interest rates and returns. Ashworth warned that the possibility of a near-tied election result may well result in uncertainty and stock market volatility well past election day . In the event of a very narrow Clinton win, it is all but guaranteed that Trump would claim the election had been rigged and would challenge the result via the courts. Civil disorder is also possible, he said.Judging by the US s controversial 2000 election, in which the Supreme Court handed victory to George W. Bush won the more than a month after polling day, uncertainty and market volatility could last for at least a month under those circumstances, he said.Rostoll advised against adjusting investment portfolios based on speculative US election outcomes, instead highlighting the importance of a well-diversified portfolio. Diversifying across the main asset classes aren t enough. Alternative investment products like smart beta ETFs and hedge funds with non-traditional mandates are key in generating non-correlated, decent risk-adjusted returns that should see a portfolio as a whole continue to outperform over the longer term, he said.