SIKI MGABADELI: We are going to tell you now how you can make your child a millionaire, sharing some tips on teaching your children about the importance of investing and saving. It s the first in a series on investing and saving, and this is ahead of Savings Month in July.Joining us now is Pieter du Toit, who is CEO of FNB Investments. Pieter, thanks very much for your time today. This is such an important thing. We are having lots of conversations about why South Africa is such a low-saving nation, so this is about getting the children while they are still young.PIETER DU TOIT: Absolutely right, Siki, and it s something that we feel quite passionate about. It is a big problem in South Africa. In South Africa parents actually are not saving enough money and as a result, then, children do not grow with the example of having to save. So firstly we want parents to save for their children s education, whether they are one day going to university or qualify for any other occupation. So that is quite important.Then secondly also to create that new cycle and to set the example for children to save and to have a long-term savings goal, and for something specific that they aim for. And hopefully if it s something more specific and you can connect something particular to it, like someone s education, then hopefully they ll follow through with it.&nbsp;&nbsp;SIKI MGABADELI: So is that what inspired you to produce this concept of making your child a millionaire?PIETER DU TOIT: Absolutely. So the whole idea is for parents to work together and share stories and tips with each other and inspire each other and also to have dedicated goals and discuss them with their children so the children can understand that it takes some commitment and some time, and get examples from their parents and continue through with them.So that s why we are supporting it. And we also have a prize so with this launch with Moneyweb there will be a prize and parents are invited to share tips and then there will be a lucky draw and one will actually win R15 000 to put into a tax-free share investment.SIKI MGABADELI: Wow. We know, though, with investment comes fear. People worry when they don t have a physical feel of cash, or that notification from their bank saying this is how much you have in the bank. It concerns them. How do we get around the fear factor regarding investing?PIETER DU TOIT: I think there are a number of things there, Siki. The one is it is also preferable to invest with a well-known brand, something that you know will be around five, ten, 20 years from now.There is also a place for cash investment as well, where you leave it for longer-term investment like education or retirement and so forth. Then the risk is not so much in market volatility; the risk is more that your returns will not be beating inflation and then it s better to rather invest in a fund like a unit trust or a share directly. And there are a number of things we can do there as well.So FNB is launching a range of five unit trusts, which we call the Horizon Series. What is so unique about this Horizon Series is that it s optimised for certain time frames. So the most conservative one is your time frame between one and two years, and it s more in cash and in bonds and much less in equity.And then it goes through a range up to the Growth and the Growth Plus, which are more for a longer-term time frame, seven years and longer. And there you ve got a lot more offshore exposure and equity exposure and property exposure. So what&#8217;s quite neat about it is it s very simple. You just have to figure out how long you want to invest for. And then we have a best optimal asset selection for you in that unit trust. So by doing things like that, we can also make it simpler for customers and remove a bit of the fear.SIKI MGABADELI: And the language is simple, so people understand what they are involving themselves in.PIETER DU TOIT: Exactly. The whole idea is to keep it very, very simple so that customers can understand themselves and they don t necessarily need to rely on lots of advice and so forth, so they know what they are getting themselves into.So if I invest, for example, for the shorter term, then the [Investment] will not be volatile, it won&#8217;t be exposed to the marketplace so much and then the aim there is to at least beat inflation and have stable returns.And then in the longer term you can take a bit more market exposure and over the longer term the volatility evens out.