STELLENBOSCH On a market capitalisation basis, around 70% of the value of the JSE is now in rand hedge stocks. This is because of the dominance of a number of large cap counters such as Naspers, SABMiller and British American Tobacco that are effectively international companies.For many investors, this part of the market has become something of an obsession. With the local currency at its current levels, there is a lot of focus on these counters.However, speaking at the BCI Global Investment Conference in Stellenbosch this week, some leading local asset managers questioned whether this is justified.Vanessa van Vuuren, the portfolio manager of the SIM Small Cap Fund suggested that many investors have a heuristic bias when it comes to the way they view rand hedges and the relationship to the local currency. In other words they see it as a general rule of thumb, but there is actually no guarantee of its accuracy or usefulness. There is a tendency to think that when the rand weakens you should buy rand hedges, and that when it strengthens you should buy local companies, she said. But it&#8217;s not as simple as that. She pointed out that, over the last few years, rand hedge stocks as a whole have not performed uniformly well, despite significant rand weakness. We&#8217;ve seen the likes of Naspers, Richemont and SABMiller driving the massive out-performance of industrial shares, but Anglo American, BHP Billiton and Lonmin have contributed to the incredibly weak performance of resource counters, she said. So if you had just gone long on rand hedge stocks irrespective of what they comprised of, you could have been caught quite short. Furthermore, non-rand hedge shares have not all performed poorly during this time either. Some companies with exclusively local operations such as Curro, Capitec, EOH, Italtile and Famous Brands have all grown their headline earnings per share at a compound annual rate of at least double digits, and their annualised returns on the stock market have been equally strong. Over the last five years, barring 2013, the number of non-rand hedges that have out-performed the SWIX is actually higher than the number of rand hedge stocks that have out-performed, Van Vuuren said. So if you were stock picking in that part of the market you could have picked a portfolio that out-performed the market and out-performed rand hedges. Junaid Bray of Argon Asset Management argued that it is therefore not clear cut that investing in rand hedges during periods of rand weakness is guaranteed to be a successful strategy. He said that, in any case, trying to forecast the rand is notoriously difficult. We don&#8217;t try to forecast the exchange rate, said Bray. I don&#8217;t think that&#8217;s the way to make investment decisions. We look at each share on an individual basis the business model, the quality of management, the industry dynamics, regulation, and the supply and demand dynamics. We don&#8217;t believe you can base an investment decision purely on the tailwind of the currency working in favour of companies because that is out of management&#8217;s control. Portfolio manager at 36ONE, Evan Walker, added that if you take the market as a whole, there is no correlation between its overall performance and the level of the currency. It&#8217;s very difficult to build portfolios around the rand relationship, said Walker. We&#8217;ve seen the JSE continue to power ahead in periods of rand strength and periods of rand weakness. He argued that what is more important than considering the rand in isolation is looking at investment opportunities based on a range of fundamentals. The currency may be a part of that, particularly its impact on returns generated offshore, but it can&#8217;t be the only criterion.Walker also suggested that investors shouldn&#8217;t imagine that just because the rand is weak and the South African economy is struggling that they should avoid investing in all local companies. There are always opportunities, Walker argued. In economies doing badly, there are still companies doing well. You have to find those select companies that have a competitive advantage and can produce returns. Bray agreed. You need to find companies that have operated well through market cycles in the past, he argued. You need to take a long-term view in your portfolio. By looking at the full scope of the local market, Walker argued that investors will be giving themselves the best chance to generate long-term returns. This is because the market now presents such diverse opportunities. What&#8217;s good about the JSE is that we have the global consumer plays that really track the S&amp;P 500, and we have domestic companies that are effectively interest rate plays tracking the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, he said. So you can build two kinds of portfolios here. And that is fantastic, sitting at the bottom of Africa with the ability to build a portfolio with 100% offshore exposure, or if things change build a 100% domestic play. We are very lucky that we have those alternatives. 