TUMISANG NDLOVU: We resume with our seven-week PayPal series here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000. Taking a look at online shopping in South Africa, focusing on how shoppers can stay safe and get great deals and access to amazing products, as well as how merchants, especially entrepreneurs and small businesses can use e-commerce. So it sounds like South Africans are joining the global cross-border shopping trend, in other words are not limited to shopping only in South Africa but are looking to get great deals and amazing products from all over the world. Efi Dahan, PayPal s general manager for Africa and Israel, joins us again this week. Efi, explain this week s topic.EFI DAHAN: One of the leading trends in the e-commerce market that we have learned is the cross-border transactions, people have realised that thanks to the internet they don t need to only focus on the domestic market and they can find better products and services, more variety, more styles and things that they cannot find domestically, and they can buy it over the internet from any market. So let me share with you some numbers, 57% of internet users, age 18 and above, already spend money online and out of those people 42% already did it from other markets. So it s more or less 50% of the online shoppers shop cross-border, which is very important and I expect this number to grow.TUMISANG NDLOVU: So what are South Africans buying?EFI DAHAN: South Africans buy a lot of things but the main verticals are digital goods, games, entertainment, event tickets, they also buy fashion, fashion is a fast growing vertical, so they can buy shoes, accessories, fashion, and the last thing is consumer electronics, they buy a lot and they know how to buy and they buy a lot from different markets, US, Europe and China.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Interesting. Why are people then shopping online out of their home countries?EFI DAHAN: There are some advantages of shopping online, so once you know how to shop and you know how to check to learn about the merchants it s simple and easy and you have access to so many things that you cannot buy domestically. In most cases you can find the same product but at a much better price, including the tax, the duties and the shipping. You have more variety, you can do market research, you can do price comparison and you can buy any item you want, and usually for better prices.TUMISANG NDLOVU: But for some people even just shopping online in their own country is something they haven t tried before, what is holding those people back?EFI DAHAN: I think the main two barriers for starting online shopping is security and logistics. In security they need to feel safe, they don t want to share financial information over the internet and with the seller. But this is where PayPal can help a lot of consumers. You can pay with PayPal without sharing your financial information with the seller and PayPal doesn t share this with the seller. The other thing is logistics, I think this is the most important thing, you want to buy something cool from the US but you want to make sure what will happen if you don t get this item or it arrives not as described. Also in this area we have a very good solution in PayPal, up to 180 days we give you buyer protection in case you have not received the item or it s not as described by the seller PayPal will give you the money back. We took it one step ahead and we offer service called a refund and return service, which means that regardless of the reason if you buy physical good domestically or cross-border from other markets you can return the item and PayPal will cover the cost of return. This is something very, very important, we have learned from the research that we have conducted that almost 50% of the people said that this is a major barrier for them to start shopping mainly from other markets. So this is very important to know and it s a great service, and South Africa adopted this service and they opt into this service via the PayPal website, which is free of charge, of course.TUMISANG NDLOVU: You ve heard it again, there are opportunities for shoppers and merchants alike, shoppers can get great deals, merchants, especially entrepreneurs and small companies, can sell to more people around the world. The world, of course, has gotten smaller and we are all shopping in similar ways but you need to have a bit of savvy to get good deals and to sat safe. We ll get into that next week. Thank you so much for your time, Efi Dahan, PayPal s general manager for Africa and Israel, here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000.