With South African e-commerce still struggling to gain traction in a tough consumer environment, it is difficult to determine where exactly the barriers lie.Often, local e-tailers bemoan a market that is still hesitant to transact online, having been spooked by tales of online fraud. Some analysts point to a lack of innovation and creative thinking on the part of e-commerce startups, while entrepreneurs claim there is a dearth of funding available making it tough to achieve that all important scale.Justin Drennan, the cofounder and CEO of Parcelninja, a specialist warehouse and logistics company that serves e-commerce businesses including Superbalist, argues that lack of funding isn t the problem. In his view, most e-commerce players &#8220;don t understand funding requirements&#8221;. With the changes in the local ecosystem and more brick and mortar stores entering the mix, you can no longer deliver in 7 to 10 days, explains Drennan, a self-professed IT geek and the mastermind behind the hit online store WantItAll, which he founded in 2006. As a result, you need to now hold stock, and deliver the next day. So capex funding is more important now than ever before. To succeed in this landscape, the small guys need to understand that they now need to hold stock, he says. There are a number of investors making investments in the e-commerce space I don&#8217;t think there is a shortage of funding, but rather a shortage of skilled operators launching businesses locally. A data-driven approachIn addition to a more strategic and considered approach to investing capital, Drennan argues that it is critical for e-commerce players to &#8220;become analysts&#8221; &#8211; in addition to being savvy marketers . There are some big players now participating in the market, and gone are the days that you can acquire customers through the major channels (Facebook, Google, etc) at a very low cost per acquisition (CPA), he says. So they now need to understand marketing far better, with a focus on numbers, not just &#8216;marketing&#8217;. These kinds of analytical skills, in addition to the adoption of emerging technology platforms such as the Cloud, will undoubtedly be the only way in which new and smaller entrants can compete with the well-funded and established retailers. The traditional brick and mortar stores are now starting to realise that there is an opportunity online both to service their existing clients, and to acquire clients that they previously have not been able to reach, notes Drennan. In my opinion, the opportunities are in niches and stores that can differentiate through great customer service. Reaching tipping point According to Arthur Goldstuck, MD of technology consultancy World Wide Worx, there are three key rules or elements of online retail in any emerging market: Segmentation will be more important online than offline; conversion is the essential key to unlock the market; and confidence is the fundamental currency of online retail, states Goldstuck.Parcelninja s Drennan points out that new entrants are certainly becoming attuned to the dynamics of the SA market, and are on the verge of success. While most still have a way to go, there are certainly indications of the sector gaining momentum. I haven&#8217;t seen many small players achieve scale or profitability yet, he admits. Up until now, they are still in the high-growth stage and acquiring customers, so their focus isn t really on profit, it s more on scale. There are a number of these players, however, who are starting to reach that critical tipping point. Drennan adds: We&#8217;ve been in the industry since 2006, and in the last three years, we&#8217;ve seen some real adoption in the e-commerce space. Takealot and Groupon have largely driven customers online, and once individuals understand e-commerce is safe, they start transacting across various sites. This article was sponsored by PayPal.