TUMISANG NDLOVU: We resume our seven-week smart e-commerce series with PayPal here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000. Today PayPal s general manager for Africa and Israel, Efi Dahan, talks to us about the equivalent rules and tips for shopping easily and safely online. What s your number one rule, Efi?EFI DAHAN: First of all I think it s very important to understand that you need to use and trust your common sense. If you find a pair of shoes that usually cost US$100 and you find it for $5 it doesn t make sense that it s a real product and it doesn t make sense that you will get it, so be careful. Use your common sense, this is the most important tip I can give you. But let me give you a few other tips, first of all before you buy, especially from an unknown website, a small website from the US, China or Europe, it s better to ask your friend, get a recommendation from your friend, those are the people you can trust the most, your family and your friends. Then you can also listen to other buyers online, there are lots of comments on the internet, it s very easy to learn about the merchant and about the service, this is the second thing. Then you can also check the policy of returns of this website. Before you buy you need to understand that this merchant ships the product to your home country, not all of them are shipping to sub-Saharan Africa, so make sure that before you buy the item that it can be delivered to you. The other thing is about returns, it s very important, 43% of South Africans said that they will shop where the returns will be for free, it s very important. Last but not least, check the payment options, I would recommend to use PayPal or not sharing financial information if you don t need to with the seller.TUMISANG NDLOVU: You mentioned buyer protection; can you tell us more about how this protects the customer?EFI DAHAN: This is a service that we offer to our buyers, we give them full buyer protection, you can learn more about that from our website but basically you have 180 days to open a dispute in PayPal if you haven t received your product or you received it broken or not as described by the seller. One of the advantages we have at PayPal is we have a direct relationship with the buyer and the seller. So we will help you to solve the problem with the seller but in any event you will get your money back if you haven t received your product or it s not as described, so there is full coverage for the buyers.TUMISANG NDLOVU: I like that. Now sneakerheads amongst us would have heard of Shelflife based in Cape Town and online, it s one of the few places in the world where you can buy super limited edition sneakers and apparently they get sold out in seconds. We ve got Shelflife owner, Nick Herbert, on the line from Cape Town to tell us more. Nick, clearly it s key that your customers know that they are getting the real deal, especially when they are shopping online, tell us about this.NICK HERBERT: It s very important, we obviously have a lot of shoppers who are first-time customers to us, who ask us if the product is authentic, and through certain processes, the site security, the comments and the feedback that we get from our customers through our social channels is all very important for us to ensure that the customer feels safe on the site and that they can get feedback at any time from us and ensure that our product is guaranteed.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Great stuff, let s pick up with Efi there. Efi, what happens if the product arrives and it doesn t fit or you just don t like it, the clothing size is not standard, the big hoo-ha?EFI DAHAN: We also have good solutions for that because it s very important for the buyers before they buy, especially in verticals like fashion, I want to buy the shoes, I want to buy the shirt but I m not sure about the size. But several months ago PayPal launched a new service in 46 countries, including South Africa, which is called a refund and return service, which means that regardless of the reason if you buy something and you are not happy with the size or the colour and so on, the merchant accepts returns but they ask you to pay for that, PayPal will cover this expense. So you can return domestically or cross-border to any merchant that accepts returns and PayPal will cover the cost. So this is very good service, it s very easy and in five working days you will get the money refunded into your PayPal account.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Okay. Nick, going back to you, have you ever had a dispute with a customer that couldn t be resolved?NICK HERBERT: We ve had PayPal disputes for sure from customers but, of course, because the customer is covered, so if anything is lost through the post or they are not happy with the purchase, a product defect or something that we could have possibly missed when shipping or something got damaged within shipping, the customer can claim back if they raise a dispute [indistinct], whereas if you pay with a credit card or another method you don t have that sort of protection and that sort of guarantee.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Great stuff. We ll leave it there for this week in our seven-week series of smart e-commerce with PayPal here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000.