Six months is a long time in economics. In January South Africans were being warned to hunker down in anticipation of the rising interest rate cycle, which was being driven by higher inflation expectations &#8211; the weak rand, drought and rising food prices being the chief culprits.Fast forward to August and the situation is quite different. The rand has strengthened and South Africa s inflation rate expectations have decelerated. While economic growth remains muted, the stable oil price and lack of demand led pressure have combined to reduce inflation forecasts.For investors this may influence their asset allocation decisions.Lesiba Ledwaba, a fund manager at Ashburton Investments does not anticipate that the interest rate cycle will change much in the next 12 to 18 months. Local rates are also impacted by global trends and global monetary policy is increasingly dovish, he says. Expectations are that the US Federal Reserve would hike interest rates gradually over the next 12 to 18 months says Ledwaba.In addition, the Federal Reserve is concerned about long-term risks and uncertainty relating to the UK s decision to leave the European Union. Many analysts now do not expect a hike in US interest rates before the next 12 months.Other central banks are also unlikely to raise rates in the near future. In the UK fears that economic growth could slow have raised the prospect of interest rate cuts. In Europe the European Central Bank, as well as the Swedish, Danish, German and Swiss central banks have introduced negative interest rates in a bid to force banks to increase their lending or investing. The same applies in Japan where it is hoped negative interest rates will jolt lending, spur inflation and reinvigorate the stagnant economy.However, all that the monetary policy environment of low or negative interest rates has achieved so far is to drive the carry trade back to emerging markets, strengthening these currencies in the process.As a result emerging market bonds, more specifically SA government bonds, were a significant beneficiary as the local bond market saw about R 61 billion of inflows so far this year.The All Bond Index (ALBI) has outperformed other asset classes this year, returning 16% to investors well ahead cash, listed property and local equities.However the path forward for the local bond market is not that clear cut, says Ledwaba. We don t expect yields to move much higher and if they stay around current levels, then returns from the asset class will be decent. For investors who are not currently invested in bonds, he does not advise getting into the market at this point. Global yields are artificially low and there is very little likelihood of them reducing much further from current levels, he says.The low interest rate environment may however create opportunities in the equities markets, which has essentially tracked sideways this year. In particular Ledwaba believes that interest rate sensitive stocks such as the clothing &amp; furniture retailers and banks &#8211; could offer investors some opportunity. A low interest rate environment helps moderate the cost of debt and this is positive for consumers who are financing debt repayments to varying degrees. Anything that consumers save in debt repayments, they are likely to spend with retailers, he says.There are of course risks to the current inflation outlook, says Ledwaba. If the US economy proves to be resilient and we start to see inflation sooner than expected, then it is likely that US Fed will increase rates and this could reverse the flows. Portfolio inflows to South Africa (and other emerging markets) are notoriously volatile, driven by market sentiment and so cannot be relied on necessarily for further rand strength.On the other hand, European and Japanese economies have been slow to respond to quantitative easing, and uncertainty around the impact of Brexit on the UK economy is likely to persist. This should drive the central bankers to keep monetary policy very accommodative.This article was sponsored by Ashburton Investments