JOHANNESBURG The rally in defensive shares may still have some legs as long as the low yield environment persists.This is according to Nkareng Mpobane, fund manager at Ashburton Investments, who says it may still be too early for investors to switch into cyclical stocks.Cyclical shares tend to perform well when economies thrive. We are not seeing signs of that in many economies, including our own, she says.Ashburton expects the South African economy to grow by a mere 0.2% this year and for growth to accelerate slightly to 1% in 2017. That is very, very low growth and so we are saying it is probably still early days for cyclicals. The performance of defensive or non-cyclical stocks is not highly correlated to the economic cycle. This basket of shares includes healthcare, telecommunication, and tobacco companies. Manufacturing, mining and construction companies however, tend to do better during periods of abundant growth and are therefore considered cyclical.While governments globally have instituted several monetary policy measures to kick-start their economies, these actions have been slow to stimulate growth. Commentators are now starting to consider what governments can do from the fiscal side to support monetary policy measures, but the jury is still out on the potential success of such steps, Mpobane says.This suggests that the low economic growth environment could persist for some time to come.Defensives vs cyclicalsOver the past two and a half years, the rally in defensive stocks has resulted in meaningful ratings differentials between defensive and cyclical shares.Certain sub-sectors within industrials, which includes most of the defensive stocks on the JSE, have seen valuations expand to multiples in excess of 20 times, while cyclical shares are still trading on price-earnings ratios in the lower to mid-teens.Mpobane highlights the global search for yield as one of the main driving forces behind the defensive stock rally.South Africa s ten-year government bond yield dropped from levels above 9.5% at the beginning of the year to the current level of roughly 8.4% on the back of the global search for yield. In an environment where Japan s ten-year government bond yield is -0.8% with countries like Germany and Switzerland also offering negative long-term yields, this is a very attractive return, she notes.Mpobane says in a global environment that offers little to no economic growth the search for yield has intensified.Stocks like British American Tobacco, which offer dividend yields of over 5% are very attractive. The share has performed well over the past three years, not merely because of its yield, but also because South African investors have been keen to increase their exposure to rand hedges as the currency depreciated.At the beginning of 2016 however, the dollar started to weaken, mainly as measured against the currencies of many emerging markets (including South Africa) supporting commodity prices. Added to this, China s monetary stimulus efforts also added to the tailwinds of commodity prices and subsequently miners have experienced quite a significant rally, she says.While investors may have regarded this as a sign that it was time to switch to cyclical stocks, Mpobane says they are still cautious on that theme as global demand has not really picked up. Yes, while we highlight the earlier mentioned tailwinds to commodities, our approach to adding to resources would be measured and cautious. We think defensives have rallied and are likely to continue to rally. How it is positionedIn terms of its equity mandate, Ashburton has been adding to its position in global brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev. Mpobane says while yield is an attractive story, it is still important to have some counters that will offer growth and the brewer s recent acquisition of SABMiller bodes well for its footprint into emerging markets.She says the firm has been very underweight resources for some time and continues to review its position regularly. An increase in global demand will be a very important trigger in starting to move to overweight positions within resources.&#8221;Despite Mediclinic s low dividend yield, it has taken an overweight position in the hospital group, partly due to its attractive defensive nature.While food retailers are generally regarded as more defensive in nature than apparel retailers, local food retailers weren t able to pass higher prices on to consumers over the past year and their profitability and share prices came under pressure as a result.Mpobane says one of the names they do like is Woolworths. Its acquisition of David Jones in Australia has added a rand hedge quality to the share and the transaction could unlock attractive synergies.* This content was sponsored by Ashburton Investments.