TUMISANG NDLOVU: We continue our seven-week series on smart e-commerce with PayPal here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000. Efi Dahan, PayPal s general manager for Africa and Israel, joins us again. Now we know the world has gotten smaller, thanks to the internet, so how do you as a South African business take advantage of this and expand your sales internationally. That s the dream, right? Enjoy the South African lifestyle but access a wider market to do business in. Efi, what does one need to know when deciding to take things to the next level?EFI DAHAN: Like anything else in your life, you need to take it seriously. It s a dream but you need to do it professionally, step by step, don t spend too much money if you don t know how to do that and what to do. The first step I can tell you is please consult with experts before you start, you need to be focused on marketing, you need to be focused on logistics, you need to be focused on payments, among other things. So before you spend money on marketing, make sure that all those components are in the right place and you can start selling internationally. So I would recommend, as I said, to consult with anyone who can help you, PayPal can help you a lot, please don t be shy to approach us to get any support regarding the payment method. But you need to make sure that all the core components, including making your website clear, the user experience is very important, customer support is very important, in order to expand the buyers who don t know you but they want to buy the product, how it works, how much does it cost, when will I get it, what will happen if I need to return. All those things, you need to make it a full story, not just deal with one part.TUMISANG NDLOVU: I m glad you raised that, shipping and logistics is definitely something that local e-commerce outfits grapple with as well, let s talk more about that, what would you say in this regard?EFI DAHAN: Yes, regarding shipping, I think shipping and logistics is a major thing, especially for this market, which is far away from most of the markets that merchants are willing to ship to and also the buyers. So we need to learn this space, you need to understand before you buy something from the US or China, you need to understand how much you are going to pay, including tax, duties and the shipping. There are several companies that can help you by offering a calculator, before you buy they can help you to calculate how much you are going to pay at the end of the process, based on the size of the item, the vertical, for different verticals you pay different tax and they can also help you to understand how much you will probably pay to get this item. Then you can decide whether to press the button or not.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Take us through how PayPal can help?EFI DAHAN: PayPal can help you a lot, we have a refund and return service that we launched successfully a couple of months ago in 46 countries, including this country. This service will help you a lot as a merchant or as a consumer, as a merchant we have a set of banners that you can promote this service on your website, this is a service that you can offer free of charge and you can bring more value to your customers and someone else will pay for the returns. You just need to accept returns and PayPal will cover the return cost. Also for the buyers it s a great service, we have learned that 43% of internet shoppers in South Africa said that if someone will remove this barrier, which means will cover the expense, they will buy more. We have learned since we launched this service that thousands of people in South Africa have opted into the service, which is free of charge, and on average the increase in total volume, total spend is 30%.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Oh, wow.EFI DAHAN: So it s great for the merchant, for the consumers and I can assure you that it s also good for PayPal.TUMISANG NDLOVU: A win-win situation, we ll leave it there. Efi Dahan, PayPal s general manager for Africa and Israel, in this week s smart e-commerce series with PayPal on MoneyTalk with Moneywe