Ashburton Investments is punting investing in corporate debt as an attractive strategy to optimise returns amid challenging global market conditions.Including listed corporate bonds and unlisted private loans in investment portfolios traditionally run with cash, bonds and equities can create more balance and help to mitigate risk, said Craig Sherman, a credit portfolio manager at Ashburton Investments. The more tools you have, the lower volatility portfolio you can construct for the same expected returns, he said. Equity valuations look slightly stretched and are demanding relative to historical norms so we re predicting equity returns for the next 12 months to be in the high single digits and obviously there is some risk around that. If we look at corporate credit, you can achieve similar returns but with a lot more certainty, he said.According to Sherman, the South African corporate bond market comprises approximately 46 entities that have issued around R 100 billion in collective bonds and more than 400 borrowers that have a combined R650 billion in unlisted loans.Sherman said returns on investment grade credit or listed bonds issued by financially sound companies are likely to be in the range of JIBAR plus 180 to 200 basis points, which translates into a current yield of just over 9% at todays prevailing interest rates. We see that as a very safe asset class and suitable for pension funds in their low risk portfolios as well as other investors with a low tolerance for risk, he added.Similarly, returns on sub-investment grade credit or leveraged companies are expected to outpace those of equities. There you have the ability to earn slightly higher returns [compared with investment grade credit] you can expect JIBAR plus 350 to 400 basis points. We see that as a good enhancement for growth assets currently sitting in portfolios with more aggressive return targets, especially from a diversification perspective, where you can earn returns of 11% to 11.5% without taking the equity beta risk in the market, he said.However, investing in corporate debt does come with drawbacks. The thing about credit is that it is an asymmetric asset class. Your upside is limited, so you can only earn the yield on the bond or the loan that you buy. Theoretically, your downside is a full loss of capital if the company defaults and lenders are unable to secure any recovery on their loan in terms of the liquidation or business rescue process. You do have the potential to lose all your money but that is a highly unlikely scenario, Sherman said.He added that the market for listed and unlisted credit is largely illiquid which also makes it difficult to get into and out of corporate credit instruments.But Sherman said a number of protection mechanisms built in to corporate credit, gives investors or lenders some surety. Covenants in banks loans act as early warning systems and give lenders a chance to engage and interact with companies in pursuit of an amicable outcome before the company reaches high levels if distress, he added. While covenants aren t as common in the listed market, he cited PPC s early redemption provision as recent example of a safety mechanism. When ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor s downgraded PPC s national scale credit rating from zaA to zaBB- in May this year, an early redemption clause at the option of bond holders &#8211; on PPC bonds was trigged. PPC did make a proposal to extend the bond redemption period but that was rejected by bondholders. Ultimately, bondholders were repaid in full on 1 July. So, because of that deterioration in the credit quality bondholders actually got their money back and got their money back early, Sherman said. He added that shares in PPC were down by 25% between the downgrade and date on which bond holders were paid.While the prospect of a credit ratings downgrade may have an effect on costs for South African borrowers in the international market, the impact on rand investors in corporate credit is unlikely to be material. Given the poor market conditions around the time of the previous rating announcement, the prospect of a sovereign credit-rating downgrade seemed to have been fully priced in and since then, conditions have improved considerably largely as a result of the global backdrop leaving some room for a market sell off. Our base case is still for a rating downgrade. Should this happen the reaction is largely going to depend on the global risk environment. If we had a rating downgrade now, the reaction would likely be muted but if it s a risk-off environment at the time and people are worried about the global macroeconomic situation, then we could see a an exaggerated move, he said.Sherman said investors interested in getting into the corporate debt market should ensure that their portfolios are diversified, a thorough due diligence on potential investment options is conducted by themselves or their investment manager and that they have the platforms in place to deal with companies should they become distressed.This article was sponsored by Ashburton Investments