For most South Africans, patriotism has been stirred at one time or another, be it through watching sport, or campaigns such as Football Fridays ahead of the 2010 Soccer World Cup, or the National Identity Campaign launched earlier this year, which looked to strengthen relations among South Africans towards a common identity.But as the saying goes on Valentine s Day, you can t show appreciation for your loved ones on just one day &#8211; it should be an everyday practice. Shouldn t the same apply to patriotism?Well, that s what Brand South Africa (Brand SA) aims to do with its Play Your Part initiative. Launched in June 2011, the national movement looks to inspire active citizenship by encouraging South Africans to use some of their time, money, skills or goods to contribute to helping those in their communities who are less fortunate.Says Sithembile Ntombela, GM of marketing at Brand SA: When we came up with the idea for Play Your Part, we thought everyone has a role to play in shaping South Africa. It was a call to action to South Africans to say they have to be proactive [in helping their communities] and not wait for the government. Ntombela says that the movement fits Brand SA s mandate of promoting Vision 2030; when it launched, they had no idea it would become a legacy programme.This year Play Your Part is based on three key pillars: education, entrepreneurship and youth. Ntombela says the pillars are changed every two-and-a-half to three years to align with the National Development Plan.The response to the movement has been impressive, with world-renowned chef Reuben Riffel an ambassador for Play Your Part and comedian and TV host Trevor Noah also getting involved. When we launched Brand SA s new tagline Inspire new ways , Riffel was featured in the advert. He was excited about the campaign and approached Brand SA to join in, Ntombela says.In playing his part, Riffel partnered with Ngwenya Glass in 2010 to create the Reuben &amp; Ngwenya Glass Collection. Five percent of all proceeds from the collection&#8217;s sales went to the Peninsula School Feeding Programme, which provided a nutritious meal a day to school pupils, ensuring they could concentrate in class.Riffel s Reuben s is a participating restaurant in StreetSmart &#8211; an initiative that adds R5 to every restaurant bill, with 100% of this being donated to organisations that work with street children. We realise that we can t do this alone. We want more international faces to be involved in spreading positive messages, Ntombela says.She adds that Brand SA hopes to have ambassadors in all nine provinces and it is 60% closer to achieving that goal.Brand SA is encouraging corporates to get involved as well. It worked with KFC two years ago on its Add Hope campaign. We encouraged them to keep going because they were addressing one of the key pillars of the Play Your Part movement, which is poverty. The entity has worked with Tiger Brands and non-governmental organisation GEM (Go the Extra Mile), which promotes social change. It also works with the Industrial Development Corporation to help drive Play Your Part s entrepreneurship pillar.Brand SA also has a memorandum of understanding with the South African Police Service. We understand the role of the police, but how they handle protests also affects South Africa s image, Ntombela says.She says the entity s partnership with the police service allows it to spread Play Your Part s messages to encourage people to help fight corruption.Ntombela says Play Your Part is succeeding in its mission. If people come to you, it tells you that you are doing great. Four years ago there was only a 6% awareness of the campaign; today it s at 24%. One in ten people are now aware of Play Your Part. This is big because we have a budget of about R8.5 million, which hardly changes, and we have to be strategic about how we use the funds. Unlike other brands that sell a product and can repurpose some of the funds for marketing, we are selling a paradigm shift and therefore we are not making money. She says it is that much more important for the entity to have strategic partnerships with the media and other organisations.So, what if you are not a celebrity or rich, but want to play your part or be an ambassador? Sign up on the Play Your Part website, identify social ills in your community and help alleviate those. You can then share your story on the site. Some of the ambassadors for the movement were found on the Play Your Part TV series, which aired on SABC 2 two years ago and profiled people who were making a difference in their communities. It s all about a commitment to serve, says Ntombela.This article was sponsored by Brand South Africa