CAPE TOWN To a large extent the mutual fund industry across the world is dominated by big firms. This is particularly true in South Africa, where the majority of assets under management in the unit trust industry are held by just a handful of managers.Despite this, smaller, and particularly newer, funds account for the majority of new asset flows globally. In a recent study, fund research house Morningstar noted that 73% of all global flows in 2015 went into funds with track records of shorter than 12 months. Even in 2014 when there was a general net outflow of money from funds, new funds saw positive inflows.Even if you take into account that a good portion of this is seed capital, it is nevertheless an extraordinary statistic. It is generally accepted that funds need a track record in order to attract assets, but the reality seems to be that investors are eager to invest in new products.This led Morningstar to ask the question about how investors choose these funds. Without a track record to go on, what selection criteria are they using? And are they choosing funds that ultimately deliver performance? We wanted to look at what factors people use to choose funds, and whether those factors also correlate with above average returns, explains Timothy Strauts, market research manager at Morningstar. And in general we found that the factors people use to choose funds do correlate with positive performance. FeesPerhaps the most obvious finding was that funds with lower fees attract more assets. It is also self-evident that, on average, funds with lower fees will produce better performance. It&#8217;s obvious that if you charge more for your strategy, on average over thousands of funds, the cheaper funds are probably going do to better, says Strauts. Investors have caught on to this. I don&#8217;t think that 15 years ago fees were discussed the way they are today, but now investors are clearly moving their money to funds with lower fees. Managers who invest alongside their clientsMorningstar found that where managers invested in their own funds, those funds were likely to receive higher flows. They also, on aggregate, deliver better performance. Investors appear to be using the ownership reporting data as a filter when deciding between two comparable new funds, the study notes. In the absence of historical information about a manager&#8217;s decision-making, investors are using managers&#8217; financial stakes in new funds as a proxy for their stewardship. The reverse is also true. If you&#8217;re managing a fund and not putting your own money in it, generally that&#8217;s a bad sign, says Strauts. There are examples where a manager has good reason for not doing it, but if you look at the aggregate, it generally holds true. This raises an interesting question for the local industry. South African regulations do not currently require managers to disclose whether or not they are invested in their own funds. This is perhaps something that needs to be addressed to assist investors with their decision-making.Disclosures helpAnother telling finding is that funds that disclose their portfolio holdings are more likely to attract investor money. If you are a fund that doesn&#8217;t report portfolios, that is a warning sign, says Strauts. Why wouldn&#8217;t you disclose what you&#8217;re doing? Investors are using this as a simple filter. If a fund is a black box and I don&#8217;t know what&#8217;s going on inside it, that&#8217;s not one I want to invest in. In this respect Morningstar has noted in previous research that disclosures among South African funds are not particularly good. Again, this is a question of what is in the investor&#8217;s best interests, and there is no doubt that better disclosure leads to better outcomes.It&#8217;s difficult in categories dominated by a few big fundsOne of Morningstar&#8217;s findings that has particular resonance with the South African industry is that it is far more difficult for new funds to attract assets when they are launched in &#8216;monopolistic categories&#8217;. These would be categories where assets under management are not equally distributed, but are instead concentrated in only a few very big funds. Our findings are quite conclusive, the study notes. New funds tend to do very poorly if they are launched into categories where assets are concentrated among only a few pre-existing funds. This is highly relevant in South Africa because almost the entire local industry has exactly this profile. With only a few exceptions in smaller categories like multi-asset flexible or multi-asset medium equity funds, a few large funds dominate. This makes it extremely difficult for new funds to gain traction. It is not controversial to assert that structural advantages are enjoyed by monopolists in industry, Morningstar states. And we believe similar arguments can be made for mutual funds where customer inertia may be even more of a reality. A new fund will have difficulty attracting assets in a category if the vast majority of investing dollars have already voted in favour of a particular fund or set of funds. The full Morningstar report can be downloaded here.