TUMISANG NDLOVU: In this week s PayPal series on smart e-commerce here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000 we focus on entrepreneurs. If you are just starting out or you want to expand your business into new markets and if you have been listening over the past few weeks you will know that around the world people increasingly care more about buying unique, quality and good value products from trustworthy online shops than they do about where in the world the shop is located. Efi Dahan, PayPal s general manager for Africa and Israel, are you seeing your merchants taking advantage of this trend?EFI DAHAN: Yes, definitely, we see it all over, merchants can sell easily to people in other markets and they can easily leverage the internet to easily expand their business and generate more revenue. This is great news for entrepreneurs, small start-ups, SMEs, freelancers, anyone can open a business and start doing sales outside of their country. So this is the trend today and we see more and more small businesses, for example a fashion designer in Australia can sell abroad, fancy dress costumes from Scotland can be sold abroad, small businesses from Israel, from Africa and this is all over. This trend will be more and more popular. A good example of a success story is Airbnb.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Is it happening here in South Africa currently?EFI DAHAN: Definitely, South Africa is a great market and thanks to the internet we can close the gap of the distance. You can start doing online shopping, you can start selling outside this country and use the benefit of the internet. We have very good examples, for example Skinny laMinx started business online and a couple of years later moved to offline business, started selling domestically and to other markets.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Fortunately we do have Pearl Thompson from Skinny laMinx on the line to tell us more. Pearl, what is it that you can add onto what Efi has already told us?PEARL THOMPSON: Hi, thanks for having me. As Efi mentioned, our business actually did start selling online and outside of South Africa before we set up our bricks and mortar store on Bree Street in Cape Town. Heather actually started making cushion covers and tea towels herself, hand printed, and selling them on an Etsy platform, which then grew organically and exponentially to a much bigger business, including wholesale customers. All of those sales have been powered by PayPal.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Pearl, what are the tax implications for small business owners?PEARL THOMPSON: When we sell products overseas and the customer overseas pays for the shipping there is no tax implication for us. Obviously with the wholesale customers they will have to pay import taxes on their side.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Right. Efi, what specifically is working out well for entrepreneurs with PayPal?EFI DAHAN: First of all we can share with the entrepreneurs our best [indistinct] for more than 14 million merchants all over the world, different verticals, almost any vertical, any field. We also learn a lot from the consumer behaviour from more than 200 markets and I think the most important thing is first of all we can connect the merchant, connect the entrepreneurs to the global e-commerce market. We can give them access to 184 million active accounts and most of the people prefer to pay with PayPal, so we can literally connect them with global e-commerce and this is a massive advantage. The other thing is obviously we can help them to get service that is faster, easier and more secure with PayPal. We have express checkout, which is a solution to give them an easy and very fast experience for the user. A couple of months ago we also launched in South Africa a service called One Touch, which means that you can buy with one touch, one click on the PayPal button and you don t need a passport, you don t need a user and you can just do it fast. As you know, most of the people today and in the near future will buy through mobile devices, it s very, very important for the merchants that we can improve them, they are going to spend a lot of money on marketing bringing potential buyers to the website or to the mobile application or device but the most important thing is to see how many out of them will end the process. By reducing the friction, reducing the number of clicks or the steps you need to go through for the process will improve the revenue dramatically for those merchants. So security, user experience and access to potential consumers who prefer to pay with PayPal.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Speaking about security, we ve deliberated about that being a concern over this series. Pearl, do entrepreneurs have to worry about that element?PEARL THOMPSON: It s not something that we ve had to worry about at all. The PayPal experience is very seamless, both from the business side and from the customer side.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Great stuff. Lastly, to you, Efi, we chatted a lot about how people are increasingly keen to buy from other countries, why do you see this changing and growing?EFI DAHAN: I think this is definitely going to be more and more, and people are going to be familiar with the opportunities. As I said, they are going to be exposed to more of a variety of things, they can buy regardless if it s from South Africa, the US or China, once they have a good item and they know about the merchant and they know about the payment method they don t care if it s from this market or from outside. Sometimes you will get products from abroad faster than domestically because some merchants are investing a lot in logistics and service. So you can get more of a variety of things and you can get things that you will never see here and you can buy unique items from other markets. So this is the advantage of the internet and this trend is going to be much bigger, we expect the cross-border part of e-commerce to be triple in the next four years.TUMISANG NDLOVU: There you have it, if you are an entrepreneur you should be thinking global from the get-go. That s the advice and that s it from this week s PayPal series on smart e-commerce here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000. &nbsp;