TFG Limited (The Foschini Group) and Mr Price are streets ahead of their competition when it comes to generating revenue – and profits – from sources other than retail sales. An analysis of the four or five major apparel retailers who do disclose data publicly shows that TFG’s income from other sources totalled more than R1.1 billion in the most recent financial year (to March 31 2016), versus its total retail sales (excluding Phase Eight in the UK) of R17.05 billion. Add in the profits it’s made from its credit (‘financial services’) business of R320.1 million and that figure jumps to R1.4 billion, or 8% of retail sales. Mr Price Group reported revenue from its mrpmoney business (including mobile) of R853 million in the 2016 financial year (also to end March), equal to 5% of its total retail sales of R18.665 billion. The other two, Truworths International (excluding Office in the UK) and Woolworths, derive most of their ‘other income’ from financial services business. The latter is in a joint venture; Woolworths Financial Services with Barclays Africa Group (Absa). By and large, all (local) retailers disclose this data differently. TFG – other income 8% of retail sales TFG books almost as much revenue from ‘other income’ as it does from ‘interest income’ charged to credit customers. And the other income is substantially more profitable, with a margin of 40% across what it terms “Customer value-added products”. In the pure credit business, it booked EBIT of R320.1 million (after net bad debt and credit costs) on interest income of R1.51 billion, a margin of 21%. “Customer value-added products” spans publishing, insurance (typical of most retailers) and a telemarketing mobile airtime business (one2one). Publishing, which is driven by Highbury Media, is a very tidy business indeed. Margins are great, and the unit continues to grow. It launched two new magazines aimed at different niches in its club membership and customer base during the 2016 financial year, bringing the total to 13. Its average monthly circulation is 1.7 million, making it one of the largest magazine publishers in the country. TFG sells short-term and long-term insurance products (mainly) to its credit customers. It describes this as a “competitive” industry and says its pricing is “competitive” and “well below anticipated regulatory limits”. Its telemarketing airtime effort operates in an “extremely competitive” industry and sells to existing account holders. TFG has reshaped the business model to “include the selling of bundled products (combining airtime/data contracts with cellphone units and insurance products)”. In future, it may “extend the sales channels into the TFG store environment”.  TFG ‘other income’ Income Net income Publishing R399.4m R182.1m Insurance R297.8m R198.1m Mobile one2one airtime R81.2m R57.4m Collection cost recovery R312.4m N/A Sundry R15.1m N/A  R1.1bn R437.6m  Mr Price Group – other income 5% of retail sales The contribution to Mr Price Group’s overall revenue from ‘non-traditional’ sources is driven by its credit business. This unit remains relatively small, especially when compared with peers, with credit sales contributing just 17.2% of the total across the group. “Interest and charges” related to credit totalled R397 million in the year to end March. Its revenue from insurance – also related to the granting of credit – was R198m. In the second half, as growth across the business slowed somewhat (before the period covered by ‘that’ trading update), revenues from these two areas grew by around 8.5%. It’s the cellular business that’s driving overall revenue growth from these other sources. Its mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) which piggybacks on Cell C’s network, has “achieved critical mass” and the group says it was profitable in the second-half of the financial year. This suggests it will be for FY2017.  mrpmoney ‘Cellular’ 2016 2015 Change Airtime sales + commission R145m R134m 8% mrpMobile MVNO R113m R29m 290%  R258m R163m 59%  Credit comprises roughly half (47%) of Mr Price Group’s other income, with cellular making up 30% and insurance 23%. Prior to the launch of the MVNO, when it just sold airtime, the weightings were heavily skewed towards credit and related products (i.e. insurance). The group has done fantastically well in building out a credit business and now a cellular one (both) from scratch.  Truworths – other income 3% of retail sales The country’s second-largest listed credit retailer (but the group which sells the largest portion of goods on credit, at 69%) reported other income of R274 million in the financial year to end June 2016. This was a 5.8% increase on the prior year. The group’s other income comprised R123m in commissions (likely financial services/insurance related), R63m in display fees, R63m in financial services income, R15m in lease rental income and R10m for ‘other’, including insurance recoveries and royalties. Remarkably, the granting of credit has actually cost Truworths money in four of the last five financial years (its business model is that its margins sit on the retail sales side of the equation). In 2016, the group said the cost of credit was R4 million (versus as much as R195 million in 2014).  Woolworths – other income 3% of retail sales Woolworths derives its ‘other income’ from its financial services joint venture with Barclays Africa Group (Absa). After impairments and with the inclusion of non-interest income, this business had income of R1.589 billion in the year to June 26 2016. After costs, profit totalled R687 million (with Woolworths’ share equalling R343 million). After tax, Woolies equity-accounted R248 million profit from the venture. But the 3% of retail sales number is flattering to Woolworths as the figure used for sales in the calculation is for the clothing and general merchandise business only (include food, and it drops to 1%). *** Edcon, given the delay caused by the implementation of the debt-to-equity transaction, has not yet published audited financial statements or a detailed annual report for FY 2016. In 2015, it reported Club fees of R550 million, administration fees of R316 million and R747 million as its share of profits from the insurance business. It also disclosed a further R162 million in “manufacturing sales to third parties”. This was on retail sales of R27.5 billion for 2015 and equates to 4% of total. *** This trend to other sources of income by apparel retailers, both from financial services products and other ancillary areas, is firmly intact. The big swing in the 2000s was towards selling cellphones and provided big boosts to the top- and bottom-lines. Competition in the space these days is fierce, with razor-thin margins, but this continues. And, for many of these retailers, these have become multi-billion-rand businesses in their own right (more on this another day). Look around you: a retail and mall boom that’s all but over, a saturated consumer base and a stagnant economy. The pressure to grow revenues from elsewhere is simply not going to let up.  * Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at hilton@moneyweb.co.za.