There is much confusion about the difference between the hospital plans that medical schemes offer and health insurance cover. This is not made easier by the fact that health insurance is available in two forms – GAP cover and hospital insurance. In this article Dr Bobby Ramasia, Principal Officer of Bonitas Medical Fund, unpacks the basic differences and explains why the proposed amendments to the Demarcation Act are expected to benefit consumers and the health industry. Hospital plans offered by medical schemes Currently, medical schemes and the hospital plans they offer are not considered as insurance because medical schemes are non-profit, strictly controlled and regulated by the Council for Medical Schemes and the Medical Schemes Act 131 of 1998. A hospital plan provides basic, yet important medical cover. They differ from scheme to scheme but in essence includes cover for all in-hospital procedures and check-ups. So when medical scheme members are admitted into hospital for a procedure or due to an accident or illness, their expenses are covered within the limits set by their particular plan. Almost all of the other day-to-day out of hospital costs (such as visits to the doctor, specialists and medicine), are out of pocket expenses. There are tax benefits on medical scheme contributions Cover for PMBs Medical schemes are required by law to cover prescribed minimum benefits (PMBs), no matter if the member is just on a hospital plan or on a more comprehensive option. PMBs include certain diagnosis-treatment pairs, which is specific medical conditions which mostly involve medical and surgical treatment such as strokes ad hip fractures; as well as 27 chronic conditions such as asthma, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease; and emergencies. All funds must pay for the diagnosis, treatment and care of these conditions and medical procedures, including consultations and tests. This is not a blank cheque though and there are clinical guidelines about the consultations and procedures that are covered. Health insurance – where GAP cover fits in GAP cover is insurance that specifically covers the shortfall between specialist charges and the amount paid by the hospital plan. The amount of Gap cover differ from policy to policy. Many consumers purchase GAP cover in conjunction with a hospital plan to provide for additional cover, as there is often a shortfall between the medical schemes pay-out and the actual tariffs charged by the hospital and specialists. GAP cover can however only be used for specialist service costs and not general healthcare related costs. Hospital insurance Hospital insurance is not a medical scheme product or plan. It’s governed by the Financial Services Board and the Long-term and the Short-term Insurance Act. It provides the policyholder with cash benefits that are paid directly out when the insured is in hospital due to illness, accidents or intensive care of convalescence. The money can be used however it suits the insured, to cover medical expenses or daily household costs. It can include personal accident risk cover such as disability and loss of limbs, inability to work, salary protection, death and/or funeral covers. Hospital insurance does not provide cover specifically for PMBs and contributions are not tax deductible. Consumers should also keep in mind that it is a set amount which might not cover their hospital or medical bills, leaving them financially short. Further, it often does not kick in until a waiting period of three to five days. In the meantime, the patient will be responsible for settling all the medical bills. Although the thought of being paid R5 000 a day while you’re are in hospital could sound appealing for some, it often fall short of the actual costs charged by surgeons, anaesthetists and hospitals. What’s up? The National Treasury has been approached to make amendments to the Demarcation Act to establish greater clarity between non-profit medical schemes and for-profit insurance companies. The proposed amendments recommend that GAP Cover includes any and all shortfall costs for health related services and products. This entails all the expenses between the costs that medical schemes are obliged to cover and what is charged by the medical practitioner. The new amendments also propose introducing insurance payment from day one rather than having a waiting period. The expectation is that, as with gap cover and medical scheme hospital plans, hospital insurance will be far more regulated going forward to ensure the practical protection of a consumer’s medical needs. The best news though, is that the guidelines are opening the door for collaboration between medical schemes and insurance providers to offer a broader product range to the benefit of consumers over all income groups. This article was sponsored by Bonitas Medical Aid