SIKI MGABADELI: Tipping Point is about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are. Today we speak to Themba Nkosi, DJ, music producer and a radio presenter, who takes us through his journey.THEMBA NKOSI: When I was 14 I had the opportunity to have my first paying DJ gig. Literally since I was 14 I was making R250 a gig at the time. That was to play from before people got there to after people left, so I was like the only guy playing the whole night.Fast forward to 2003, I got my first residency at Whozoo in Midrand, and at the time, luckily for me, the owner there used to advertise on radio. So at any given time and any given weekend it was always like Fresh, Oskido, Euphonik, Christos.So luckily for me as well, something happens in your life along the way that you only realise in hindsight that, oh, this was setting me up for that. At the time I realised, okay, I&#8217;m amongst all these big-name DJs, but nobody knows who I am, nobody knows my face. So now the challenge is to market myself, that guy that people keep hearing about but no one knows his face.I m a serial collaborator. I love working with other people and vibing with other people, so I started a relationship with DJ Kent, basically created Kentphonik that was in 2005. My life s been a roller-coaster ride since then.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Tell us about the business in you, because you mentioned keywords like marketing and now you are into property. Where did it all come from for you to think of your profession as not just an entertainment, but as a business?THEMBA NKOSI: In high school one of the subjects I did was Business Economics. I&#8217;ve always been an entrepreneur, like I would sell stuff to other kids at school, sweets, things that they didn t have at the tick shop. I was a paper boy in my area, so as to save up and make money so that I could go buy video equipment and music. My parents are probably the biggest people that trusted me, because they ve always instilled in me you can have whatever you want, as long as you work hard for it.So in my mind I never, ever, had restrictions in my head, because cleaning the pool, polishing my shoes, picking up the dog s poo, washing my dad s car, and doing chores around the house all equated to money. So I was always told if you want a bike, you just have to make sure that you come up with half of the money and then we&#8217;ll come up with the other half of the money. So I was never the kid that got bought Jordans if I had a pair of Jordans it was because I worked hard to make sure that I had half the money for a pair of Jordans, and then I got Jordans.So it&#8217;s all the stuff that I learnt from a very young age. Business economics just before I finished high school I was doing my SWOT analysis on all the big DJs in the country, seeing where the gaps and the opportunities were. In 2003 when I could see, okay, these are all the gaps and these are all the opportunities, I was ready for them already.I&#8217;m applying the same thing now to my property career like sit back, pull yourself out of the picture, look at the picture from the outside and just see where all the gaps and all the opportunities are, and then work hard every single day. Be consumed in what you are doing and chase those goals.TUMISANG NDLOVU: So what&#8217;s the best part about your job?THEMBA NKOSI: I think the best part about being a property mogul is that I get to play house and then I use that money from playing house to buy houses. That s the most fun about it. I&#8217;ve actually never felt like I&#8217;ve ever had a job because at any given time I was always doing the things that I love. I&#8217;m that kind of a guy.SIKI MGABADELI: Themba Nkosi DJ, music producer and radio presenter.