NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Welcome to Beyond the Money, where we have in-depth conversations with the country s best thinkers, writers and business leaders, My guest today is Dolly Mokgatle, who is an executive director at Peotona Group Holdings, which is an empowerment investment company. Over the years she has held various positions in companies such as Spoornet and was the MD of the Transmission Group in Eskom, where she was the first black woman and the first non-technical person to be appointed to the position. This is just a small snippet in relation to her extensive career but she joins me now in studio to take us through that journey. It started from the beginning and all of a sudden the growth and success and that s what we re talking about in today s episode, the success behind Dolly Mokgatle. Thank you so much for your time.DOLLY MOKGATLE: Thank you, Nastassia, it s an absolute pleasure being here.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I ve read over the years that one s childhood, there are aspects of it that mould you into the person that you ultimately become, would you be able to give us a glimpse into your childhood.DOLLY MOKGATLE: Well, not as colourful as what people might want to believe but I think my life is a microcosm of the lives of many other people, particularly in my age group who grew up in South Africa during those days. So typically I grew up in a township, I was one of eight children, brought up almost single-handedly by a single parent because my father died when I was only seven years old. So I think in terms of one being shaped by circumstances, I can tell you that the early passing of my father had a massive impact on me, not only in terms of the loss, which is natural, but also in terms of how you turn your own life around from a young age to literally growing up fighting because you know that you have no option but to continue to soldier on. That was really influenced by the manner in which my father brought us up, my memories of him were that he was a person who was physically larger than his family but after his passing I thought of him as someone who was larger not only in stature but larger in terms of his influence. His life was short because he passed away at the age of 40 but his influence on us, as children, was a bigger one that his physical stature. Therefore, for me it was about what do we do as siblings and what do I do as a child of this person to succeed in life. The reason for that is as young as I was I recall specifically him always saying to us that he and my mom did not have any formal education but the one thing that they were determined to do is to give us an education, how far we take it and where we land would be up to us but they are determined to do that. So education became a passion for me especially and for my siblings because we almost took it and think back I think that was the right frame of mind to have as a passport out of the adversity that we experienced after my father passed away, leaving a young 36-year old mother, who had so many children to bring up.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What did you aspire to be when you were younger?DOLLY MOKGATLE: It s an interesting question because my father cap-badged all of his children, so, for example, my oldest sister was a staff nurse, in those days nursing sisters were called staff nurses and staff nurses were those who wore epaulettes and were qualified and I was a mistress, a teacher. So everyone had this thing and it worked on you and you grew up at the time before he died knowing that you are going to be a staff nurse, you re going to be a mistress, you re going to be a teacher and we didn t follow, at least my older sister and I didn t follow those badges of honour. I became a lawyer, my sister became a teacher, so when I was supposed to be a teacher she became a teacher and my older brother also became a teacher, he finally became a school deputy headmaster. But it was just interesting when you were looking at this array of, as they say, mapimpana, you can almost tell this one is going to become a nurse and this one is going to be a lawyer. But we must also remember that a broad range of professions were not available to us in those days, my father died in 1963, so that s a very long time ago and there were few people who made an impression, to whom you would aspire in terms of shaping your own life and your own career. But I can tell you one thing that really shaped my life as well and saddens me when I look at how things have turned, especially in the world and in our country, is certain professions were absolutely dignified, we lived on a street that had you name it, nurses, teachers and it had the first black nuclear physicist in the country, his name was Dr Msezane, and right at the end of that street was the head of the traffic police. We were in awe of him. Not far from home was the head of the East Rand Murder and Robbery Squad, who used to be picked up by a white police captain from his house in the township by car in the 1960s and 1970s. So that was big. Nowadays you look at how those professions have become really not truly respected and the roles that people play, in terms of the experience that they have gained, really being undermined by our own national circumstances.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: You were talking about what shaped your life in those times, what shaped your life in the early days of your career? When you were studying law did you think you d be able to practice it or you knew it was one of those things where it s a foundation and I might go into something else? Was the dream to be in court practicing?DOLLY MOKGATLE: I wanted very much to be a lawyer, I had no other aspirations other than to be a lawyer, and what I did later on was not in my mind at all. I wanted to finish my studying and at that time it wasn t common for a young black woman to go into that profession but I knew that it was going to grow and that influenced my decision to go from just completing a junior degree to completing a senior degree. In those days you had a choice, you didn t have to do the whole thing and there were very few who went from a Bachelor of Arts, majoring in law, or the BProc, as it then was and went onto LLB but you are influenced by what the future looks like. We came to understand that to compete, to be even taken as an article clerk, which is now called candidacy, you will have to show more than just a junior degree or you could end up in other fields of law and not in a law firm training to be a practicing attorney. So even before I completed my BProc, which was a year after the year I was supposed to complete because of the June 1976 into 1977 student riots, I knew that I can t not go into the next level in 1978, which was the LLB.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: How did you get into the corporate side of things?DOLLY MOKGATLE: I was curious and I think I had and I still have my father s business blood in me because my father was an entrepreneur, so he influenced me a lot because I witnessed him and felt his spirit even though I was very young. I wondered how he did it, where he would leave the house and carrying what used to be called soft goods in a big suitcase thrown onto the back of a motorbike and rode that motorbike to some remote areas to sell it and make money, and came back with the money to show my mother. So I didn t know my father to work for anybody. How I ended up working for anybody until about 11 years ago I m not sure but he did influence me. So what clearly was an influence was I went into law and generally lawyers are not really known to be entrepreneurs in those days. But when you think about it being a practicing lawyer, whether you are an attorney or even an advocate it s actually a business but it s not perceived that way, there s a difference. So I always wanted to be in business and even the choice I made of the field that I started in my early days practicing into had no relation to business but during that time I knew that something was turning in me, that there was a spirit that was growing in me that was showing me something profound that was going to happen in this country and that I better be prepared for it.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: How do you relate to the term failure, what is your relationship with that because most people are afraid of trying new things or going into a different aspect of business because you were known for doing A for so long and you ve succeeded, now you are going into something that is unchartered territory and you are scared you are going to fail. What s your relationship with that term?DOLLY MOKGATLE: First and foremost I regard failure as part of success and because I know very few people who were handpicked from their mother s wombs to become successes. Even as we revere them, even as we give them the accolades that they so duly deserve, we don t go deep enough to understand how they got there. What is their experience with life, with the careers that they came to build, we take that top part and we leave it and here lies, for me, the lack of depth in terms of how we as human beings relate to each other. I ll give you an example, I became the CEO of a very large company in South Africa called Spoornet, so I come out of a very successful career at Eskom, I think I was at Eskom for 13 years, and I walk into Spoornet, which was much larger than the division I ran, although the division was part of a very large business called Eskom. As soon as you walk into those positions, because they are so public, and because people talk to you in the context of what your strategy is going to be to turn the kind of business that I became the chief executive of around. You re talking to people and, therefore, you are putting yourself out there in the context of these discussions and people who may or may not have known that you are there start talking to you and you get phone calls from not only the media, who want to speak to you but people who want to know how they can do things within the organisation. That s how people mostly relate to people. People relate to title and this I learnt after I left the company that actually people were not relating to me as me, they were relating to me as the title in a position and that your depth is actually not delved into, it s actually not understood. So I don t want to be philosophical but it is the truth that when you lose title you lose friends and in certain instances you actually lose family. So the strength of who you are is around the richness of the kind of relationships you have because they can either make you or break you.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I looked at the women who are around you, especially when you look at Peotona and they ve got such extensive careers, they are strong women, how important is it for you to surround yourself with people who are strong and supportive and who help you in your journey as much as you help in theirs, so it s a partnership.DOLLY MOKGATLE: It is a definite partnership because clearly I m a trained lawyer and understanding the technical and relationship side of partnership is part of who I am. The technical side of partnership is a group of people coming together with different skills and they make those skills work for the benefit of the company or a partnership or association that they do. Equally any other relationship is a partnership, be it a personal relationship or be it for a non-profit association, it s a relationship. The minute you get together you tap into each other s strengths, otherwise you do things solo because you believe that you ve got enough resource within you to be able to do it, when you need that support you will get it outside of your core competence and your core competence is what actually puts the bread on the table and that s how you wish to do it. So there is no right or wrong. As far as we are concerned, as the partners in Peotona, we knew that we could bring something significant together, as opposed to working individually. Curiously enough, we were each working on something before we got together. I had things that I said okay, that s it corporate life, I m going to now be my own life in business, so it s not corporate but it s still in business because I knew I had my father s business blood in me. So we then came together and we started analysing what each other s aspirations were at a personal level and we then started building aspirations for the company and learnt that, by the way, our individual and personal aspirations may not necessarily be aligned to the company but if we re honest about it and we put them together we will soon find commonality of purpose. We did exactly that, we joined each other s hearts and connected the dots based on the spirit that was quite common to the four of us.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: When you look back on your career what are you most proud of?DOLLY MOKGATLE: Resilience, tenacity, fighting for what you know you deserve but making sure that you don t short change your brain. I used to say this to my teams and I still say this to my children and young people that I mentor that actually your brain is like a sponge, it can absorb the most massive things that you allow and that we as human beings are actually the key limiters for how congested that sponge can be.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: You chair an organisation called Junior Achievement South Africa, tell us about that.DOLLY MOKGATLE: I m very privileged to be part of Junior Achievement South Africa, it s an organisation that in South Africa is in excess of 37 years old and we bring entrepreneurship to schools, from grade eight to high school. In recent years we have also started looking at out-of-school youth because we realise that with all the focus in high school those young members of our society that happen not to step automatically into tertiary education are actually left out. So they fall into that gap that sometimes they are not picked up early enough to help them move further. The emphasis in South Africa goes more towards tertiary education, whereas people have got entrepreneurial blood and a spirit in them that is rarely tapped and that s what we need to do. We need to be broad and know that although we ve studied in a particular field we can do other things. So if you take a high school graduate, for example, an entity like Junior Achievement can encounter, they don t look at that person purely from the level of matric that they got, they would say how much entrepreneurship potential can we build and in giving them the training they then have choices, whether they pursue that field or they do something else with their life but at least they have a choice. So if you bring it back to schools, our view at Junior Achievement South Africa is we know that you could have other aspirations post matric but we are giving you an opportunity to understand what other things there are in the world that from a career point of view you can look at that is not commonly talked about and that is entrepreneurship.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What s that one key piece of career advice that you think every young person should know that nobody tells you about from your perspective?DOLLY MOKGATLE: In the past if I got an opportunity to address young people I would say that they need to have staying power and that clearly was what influenced me. The longer I do something, the more mastery I develop. Have I changed my mind about that? Absolutely not. I am cautioned by the world around us, which is moving at a very fast pace, especially aided by technology. So as far as my children are concerned I m a technological dinosaur but I can navigate my way. So I need to understand and appreciate that young people, although I still have the strength of the advice that I give, are influenced by things that are quite different from what influenced me. They know how they will get their experience. Also in the past you found that loyalty was highly and richly rewarded, even in my time loyalty was not necessarily rewarded, you stayed because you wanted to learn more and hopefully being a master in what you do. However, you knew that you have the potential to actually sell your skill, it s just that you need a company and a country that s mature enough to know that people can sell their skill anywhere. Nowadays people don t even need to move out of their homes. So my advice to young people is with all of these things that are widely available to you take into account that certain legacy issues still apply today, that even though you have so much choice and such an array of options in front of you, you need to use them to benefit your longevity into a career, otherwise you run the risk of being everywhere. We ve seen young people who walk in and in six months they don t like the degree that they ve registered for, they hop into something else and by the time they ve completed their studies they don t know what they want to do. Maybe that s fine but understand that the world is not like that because the minute you hit the so-called employment environment the first thing you need to know is that experience counts for everything, not how many websites you ve explored overnight or whatever. Yes, those maybe make you a richer person in the context of your understanding of the world, as well as what things you could do at a personal level but in the end you have to focus. So that s my advice, that whatever is available focus on that thing that you feel is going to grow you at a personal level and it s not necessarily purely just your career and the job you pursue or the business you pursue but it s also being broad. I ve always said and I always will say we need to be bringing up, as mothers, children of the world, not children who look narrowly at life or through a narrow lens but to understand that there is a bigger world that affects everything that they do every day. So it applies to young people but it also applies to mature and older people as well.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: One last question, what is your greater goal in life?DOLLY MOKGATLE: My belief is that goals change, I think they change not only by the decade, nowadays things have narrowed down so much that they change by the year. So there are annual goals and there are longer-term goals. My longer-term goal is to age gracefully and aging gracefully means arriving and being at a level where I have enough scars to understand who I am, not to be swayed by any measure or amount of wind that comes and my goal with that wind is to stay grounded in who I am and loving who I am. I m looking forward to loving my grandchildren and looking forward to them still having a grandmother who can really arrange their marbles in a straight line. So that s my aspiration because I think we are so enriched by who we are and what influences us. The career and the work we do becomes so much richer because we are personally so much stronger and so much richer in ourselves.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Dolly, I had such a lovely time. Thank you so much for your time.DOLLY MOKGATLE: Thank you for having me, Nastassia.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That was Dolly Mokgatle, who is executive director of Peotona Group Holdings.