NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Welcome to Beyond the Money, the aim of this show is to have in-depth conversations with the country s best thinkers, writers, business leaders, amongst other awesome people, who are all eager to share their ideas and their stories and basically redefine what we mean when we talk about success, what s beyond the money, what s beyond the external power that you see. My guest today is one of those individuals who has challenged the status quo and amid the fiscal constraints and the political uncertainties and the extremely weak economic growth, we are in a country that s placing emphasis on cultivating and redefining the entrepreneurship culture, growing its recognition through understanding that it will be a driver of growth and it will also help in job creation, my guest is the CEO of The Business Exchange, David Seinker. David, thank you so much for your time.DAVID SEINKER: Thank you, Nastassia.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Everybody has a story, a reason why they are here and I suppose my first question is take me back to before The Business Exchange when you realised that there is something about this entrepreneurship journey that tickled your fancy.DAVID SEINKER: I started out in the corporate world, I worked at a property company for about six years. I worked my way up there, I was actually the first employee and it grew to staff complement of 200. But throughout this process I always have this need to self-fulfil my entrepreneurial passion and drive, so about three and a half years ago I left and I started my own ventures in the property space with some funders that I had contact with and I got involved with some student housing projects. Along that journey I wanted to see how I could assist other entrepreneurs in raising funding and following their entrepreneurial dreams. So what I did is I launched a platform, an online website Corculture, which connected entrepreneurs to my group of investors and that was successful, we did deals to the value of about R100 million. During that process it s one big evolution but during that process I had a serviced office and I saw that there was a big gap or a lot of demand and a short supply of service offices in South Africa. Tenants wanted that flexibility and agility in the office environment. So I went about investigating putting together what I was doing, which was helping entrepreneurs raising funding and advising them on how to do that. I wanted to bring them under one roof, offer them the office component, so that s how The Business Exchange came about.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Was there any point in that journey where you thought, I really have no idea what I m doing, this is scary.DAVID SEINKER: It happens all the time, even until today but I think the fear of failure is something that sticks with you forever. I think it s important because it keeps you on your toes and your wits about you but I think if you are a true entrepreneur, something keeps you going, something keeps pushing you and driving you and through a bit of failure you find your feet but ja, that feeling will always be there.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: While we re on the topic of failure, what is your relationship with that term because I understand that when you are in the US or based around that Silicon Valley area, when investors want to invest in your company or in your venture they want to know how many times you ve failed, and the more times you ve failed they realise that you have learned something along the way, so we re going to put our money with you, what s your relationship with that term failure?DAVID SEINKER: I have failed before in the property space. I think what failure means to me or what happened with me, if I can share some of my experience, is that generally when you get into something there are many boxes you need to tick to make sure it s a success, and if you have experience in your industry and you are driven you ll generally get most of it right but you ll miss something. But unfortunately that something leads you to failing. So what it did for me is moving into the next venture I managed to tick that box, learn from that failure, that one key element that I didn t succeed at and that s now allowing me to succeed and flourish in my latest ventures. So I think failure is very important and most people go through it, most entrepreneurs have that. But ja, it s interesting the point you ask and my investors have asked me that too before because they like to know that you ve been at rock bottom, you know what it feels like because hopefully you will try and avoid it happening again.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What is rock bottom to you?DAVID SEINKER: You are asking testing questions here, I like it.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: [Laughing]DAVID SEINKER: Rock bottom means no money [laughing] first and foremost, trying to figure out how you are going to make ends meet at the end of the month, paying your bills and I guess what it means is entrepreneurs are generally proud people, so with failure you get quite a dent in your pride and you have to bounce back from that, so you have to really be strong and keep your wits about you to see how you can get through that. A lot of people won t make it through that, they ll hit rock bottom space and think this is terrible, everyone knows I failed, my reputation is gone, my friends, my family and everyone around me thinks I m a loser, and that type of thing. So you have to really be a strong-willed person to be able to get through that but I think most entrepreneurs are the ones that do go onto succeed.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: When you re going through all of that and you ve reached rock bottom, is it difficult to ask for help? Is there a point where an entrepreneur needs to have a relationship with that asking, like asking for what you want?DAVID SEINKER: Ja, I think so, I think certainly a lot of people who I know have been in a position where they have needed help and there s no harm in that. I think people are here to help each other and when you are in a position of desperation I don t think there s a problem with asking for help from people who can assist you.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I ve looked at your team and the people who work around you, how important has it been to have the right kind of people with the right kind of skill set and who see your vision, and who see where you are trying to take this business?DAVID SEINKER: It s critically important but I will say one thing, what I have learnt with The Business Exchange is that passion is far more important than experience, if you can manage your people, if you can teach them and train them, passion is the best thing you can have. Passion and drive. The one person who has been with me since the start, a couple of years ago, has been promoted three times, she s now running the greater Sandton area and she s doing incredibly well and she came from zero experience in this space and she s now better at most of the stuff than I am, which is great to see. One person who didn t work out in that company unfortunately and she came with a lot of experience, even from abroad, and she didn t work out because she didn t fit in with the culture. So I ve learnt a lesson from that, people with passion are the right types of people to take your company to the next level.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So if I m in the boardroom with you and I m interviewing for a job, that s the main thing that you are looking for if I m on the other side of that table, passion?DAVID SEINKER: Absolutely, passion, drive, integrity. It s hard to identify some of this in an interview and the proof is often in the pudding but definitely passion and drive for me are key things.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: You ve grown since you started, at what point do you establish the balance between achieving profits for the business and expanding the business as quickly as you can, is there some kind of balance? What are mostly focused on right now?DAVID SEINKER: The nature of our business is a bit different in that every building you do is a different entity and company, so as we grow our buildings can be making profits and the new ones are separate entities completely, so those would have their own lifecycle and stages of growth in business. Provided there is demand and we are finding the right properties we can keep growing and hopefully quite quickly.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Would you say that the David now sitting in front of me and the David, say, five years ago, are two different David s and why?DAVID SEINKER: Definitely [laughing].NASTASSIA ARENDSE: [Laughing] Who was the David five years ago?DAVID SEINKER: Without sounding too clich , I have definitely matured a lot as a person in business and out of business. I got married, so perhaps my life partner has played a significant role in that too, she s going to be happy when she reads this. But I ve definitely matured, I think touching on what we discussed earlier, the failure part definitely matures you by ten years within ten weeks. You become a lot more serious and you mature a lot and I ve learnt a lot through the last five years, I think in your late 20s, early 30s you go through that, people go through different journeys at different stages. But I m definitely a different person to what I was then.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What is the best decision you ve made thus far in this journey?DAVID SEINKER: I d say the best decision I made was to stick it out and to keep going for it, through a pervious failure, as we were saying, it was very difficult to be in that rock bottom place. A lot of people will fall out and then blame it on others or say we re in a terrible economy, the world is a bad place, there s no business happening, who wants to start a small business now. The thing I m happiest about is saying that I m going to get through this suffering, bear it out, get through all the heartache and the aggravation and all of that and keep going for it. I m very happy I did that, it was a good decision.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Was the aggravation before you got married or was that after?DAVID SEINKER: No, before [laughing].NASTASSIA ARENDSE: [Laughing] Okay, because people around you, and it doesn t have to be the people you go to work with, it s the people who are very, very close to you at that point who become somebody that you lean on and who helps propel and hold on a little bit longer. So we re going to give your wife more props that she helped you.DAVID SEINKER: Absolutely. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: When you look at your inspiration and what keeps you going day to day, I was reading somewhere about the different kinds of mentors you need to have and it helps to have one, for example, who s your sounding board and another who perhaps helps you calculate the numbers and tells you whether you are on the right path or not. Do you have mentors in your life or a particular person who you are close with and they help you find perspective?DAVID SEINKER: It s an interesting question because I think most people do have a mentor who they speak to and go to. I haven t had a specific person in my life. I ve had some people who I ll bounce ideas off but not a specific person who I would go to for most of my advice. What I have found to be brilliant is the new partners I have in The Business Exchange, I don t want to say that they act as mentors but they certainly act as sounding boards and they are very strategic and we complement each other very well. So where I fall short, they are strong and they help me through that, so together we make a very sound team. So that s been the best thing for me and perhaps advice for other up and coming entrepreneurs is find the right partners, if they are not actively involved, certainly strategically, let them be there to make those big decisions in your business because, as we know, one big bad decision can cost you your company. So that s been a very good thing for me.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I think the majority of us plan quite a bit to avoid the bad decisions that happen, would you say that the way that your career has panned out was that all planned or di it all organically happen as it should?DAVID SEINKER: It was definitely unplanned and organic. It s been an evolution for me, it started with working in corporate, in property and then that went into me trying my own property, to investments, to getting involved in entrepreneurial landscaping, helping entrepreneurs, to starting the business exchange, which really was a culmination of all of that. I wouldn t have done this had I not had the background and experience in managing property and I wouldn t have been passionate about it if I hadn t been involved in entrepreneurship and helping other entrepreneurs and advisory and fundraising. So definitely an evolution and, as I mentioned before, I m so happy that I stuck it out at one point when it was difficult because it got me to here.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What s your assessment of South Africa s entrepreneurial landscape?DAVID SEINKER: Out of the 100 office tenants we have and the 200 virtual tenants we have I see great things every single day, I see like-minded people who are driven, highly intellectual, who have great business ideas and they have been around for a while, a lot of these tenants have been around for five years. They are accomplished and they have big corporates as clients. So I see very good things. You read a lot of bad press all the time, perhaps our entrepreneurial rate is not as strong as other African countries but I certainly see great things every day, I see good demand. It s a very robust space in terms of our tenancy, so I m very positive about it. I think the whole world is in a bad space economically and hopefully in five years time things will look a lot better.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Let s talk a little bit more about the business, I m an entrepreneur, I m sitting at home and I log onto The Business Exchange website and I see that you offer numerous services, one of which helps me to get funding for my business but then I ask myself, what kind of funding am I looking for and where do I need to be at the level of my business before The Business Exchange will put their name right next to mine in front of a funder? What are you looking for?DAVID SEINKER: The Business Exchange acts as an intermediary between our tenants, entrepreneurs and investors, so what we ve done to formalize it is have an event or a private pitching session every quarter of the year. Our tenants/entrepreneurs apply on our website, if that s approved they then get an opportunity to prepare a PowerPoint presentation, which is then sent through to the investors and on the evening they will meet with the investors in a boardroom and present their business. So it s not a Dragons Den, fun-filled, glamorous type of event, it s a very serious thing. These investors are there to look for good opportunities, the type of businesses they look for, it s quite broad, there are no stringent requirements, it could be a start-up looking for seed funding, it could be an established start-up that s been around for a few years and is looking for growth capital, it just depends mostly on the entrepreneurs and if they are the type of people you can back.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: And in what kind of sectors?DAVID SEINKER: It s across all sectors, there are obviously certain sectors that become a bit more difficult, like mining as an example, it s quite complicated but I m not ruling that out. It s very broad and there are three entrepreneurs now who are close to getting funding, they have met with the investors post that evening, they ve met with the investors three or four times and they are pretty close now to doing deals. So that s very exciting for us to see that coming to fruition.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In those sectors are there particular ones where the investors get really excited about, for example, fintech or whatever that may be?DAVID SEINKER: We ve got our core group of investors and the brief from them is no because how they operate is they also have their own network of funders who they also deal with. So, again, it s very broad. You mentioned fintech, we ve got a lot of fintech tenants now at our Rosebank centre, so that s definitely a hot industry right now, so perhaps they would get more excited about it, I would, I guess. But, again, pretty broad and entrepreneurs are encouraged to apply and see if they can meet with them and do a dealNASTASSIA ARENDSE: And do the investors come to you or do you go looking for them, how does that relationship work?DAVID SEINKER: We work with one group of specific funders, they are a company and they work together, so at the moment we are relying on that channel alone and that s why we ve also formalised it. So every quarter it will be at one of our centres, last time it was at our Morningside branch. They come there that evening and how we kicked off was I had a ten-minute discussion with the entrepreneurs giving them tips, how to raise funding, what to look out for, what not to say and just giving them some broad pitching tips. We have some snacks and drinks and socialize a bit and then one by one the entrepreneurs go into the boardroom and present their opportunity.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What are the plans in the year and in the immediate future?DAVID SEINKER: For us we are hopefully going to conclude our third centre in Sandton CBD and we are looking at a bit further north, the Midrand, Menlyn, Centurion areas, we re looking at the greater Pretoria area for our growth.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Now that we ve spoken about the business, I m going to come back to you, what is your greater goal in life?DAVID SEINKER: If you had to define success a lot of people will define success as being very wealthy and famous and all those things. For me it s not about that, if it s R100 million or R1 billion that s not as important for me, it s about creating and seeing my creations coming to fruition, being able to innovate and being able to deal with people. I love my job every day because I get to see my people also growing and enjoying what they do and that s very important for me, that inspires me. The same for entrepreneurs, when I see them enjoying the space, meeting with other people and enjoying everything that we offer that also inspires me. So my greater goal is to keep growing, to keep creating and hopefully all my creations are successful but not just about the money, about everything I have mentioned.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: While we are on the topic of the greater goal, we all have a particular individual we aspire to be, are you at the point of being that person you want to be and if not, how far are you and who is that person?DAVID SEINKER: Interesting question again. I m certainly not at that point, I ve got a lot of growth to do. It s a difficult question to answer. I don t know who I would want to aspire to be, again, I ve never had a specific mentor, so it s a difficult one to think about but hopefully I ll get more ideas in this regard and I ll throw them at you.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: [Laughing]DAVID SEINKER: Maybe you can give me some inspiration on this.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That s fine, I m just letting you know DAVID SEINKER: I think to summarise, I think you are always growing and always learning, it s a continuous learning curve being in business, I learn something new every day of my life and I think that s the exciting part of it. So we ll see what the future holds.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: David, thank you so much for your time.DAVID SEINKER: Thank you very much.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That is David Seinker, he is the CEO of The Business Exchange. The Business Exchange assists entrepreneurs to overcome some of their funding hurdles and the challenges of accessing some of the networks, and the challenges that David, himself, has also faced.