When analysing the growth of e-commerce adoption in South Africa, and the new wave of e-commerce entrepreneurs, an oft-cited weakness is the marketing aspect (or lack thereof) and the use of fast-evolving digital tools.Charlie Stewart, CEO of digital marketing agency Rogerwilco, points out that e-tailers are missing a trick with regards to digital platforms and marketing strategy. South Africa and Africa for that matter is firmly online, he says. Across the continent as a whole there are some 349 million active internet users and in South Africa around 27 million have access to the web. Regardless of whether a business is web-based or is still operating in the traditional environment, it s imperative that they have a robust digital strategy that will stand up to the demands of the self-sold customer. According to Stewart, by empowering purchasers to conduct their own research online, the web has created a closed environment that enables savvy consumers to find information about companies and their products or services without having to deal with pushy salespeople. More to the point, the web short-circuits much of the bluster that accompanies self-promotional sales pitches, allowing consumers to find authentic information, provided by their peers, that speaks to their requirements, he adds. Companies that haven t adopted digital will be invisible to this growing army of self-sold customers who turn to Google and their social media timelines to gather insights during the research phase of the buying process. In his view, while online security is still an issue for any e-commerce venture, it is becoming less of a barrier as digital natives (those who have grown up with smartphones in hand) start wielding their newfound buying power. While security remains a key educational need for people who are new to e-commerce, digital natives are happy to provide credit card details given the convenience that online shopping presents, Stewart explains. As such, education is moving more into the area of fulfilment how quickly products are shipped, what return policies are and what payment options are available. There is an opportunity here, insists Stewart, to move the narrative into the convenience that e-commerce presents. This argument is supported by an Effective Measure study which revealed that while 53% of shoppers browse products in store before buying online, nearly three quarters do the opposite &#8211; using the internet to conduct their research but making their purchase in physical stores. Rian Bornman, co-founder of business-to-business (B2B) online travel booking company FlightSite.com, echoes this sentiment, noting that the biggest barrier to growth in the adoption of e-travel services has been the steep learning curve of the users, who have not interacted with a B2B platform in this way. He points to technology as a major enabler for emerging e-commerce entrepreneurs, allowing savvy businesses to scale quickly. Our technology has enabled us to scale seamlessly with a B2B web-based platform that allows our remote users to have the same view of travel inventory that previously only traditional travel agents in high street shopping malls, had access to, says Bornman. So for us, technology has removed the barriers to entry in the travel industry and allowed smaller players to compete with the largest consortiums on price and distribution from the get go. Any tips for entrepreneurs? Design a big goal for yourselves but don t get too caught up in planning how to get there, advises Bornman. Instead of being proactive or reactive, plan interactively, on a day to day basis, as the business changes rapidly with the end goal in sight. From a digital marketing perspective, Stewart of Rogerwilco is a major advocate of spending on Google Ads. Google is the go-to destination for anyone looking to buy online and, while getting prominent visibility in its organic search results should be the ultimate goal, AdWords provided there s effective management will provide quick traction, he says.He adds that entrepreneurs looking to get started with e-commerce would do well to put their money into marketing rather than infrastructure. The much-abused build it and they will come quote from the movie Field of Dreams is the worst thing that a budding e-entrepreneur can do, says Stewart. It s all too easy to blow hundreds of thousands of rands on building a glitzy website only to find there s no money to promote it once it s built. This article was sponsored by PayPal