CAPE TOWN At the Raging Bull awards in January this year, Nedgroup Investments was named as the South African asset manager of the year. It was deserved recognition for a company that has introduced a distinct and highly successful model to the local asset management industry.By identifying what it calls &#8216;best of breed&#8217; managers to manage each of its funds, it has effectively taken selection risk away from investors. By choosing a Nedgroup Investments Fund, you know you are getting a top manager.On the whole, this has worked. But there has been one, very significant exception the Nedgroup Investments Managed Fund.At the point when RECM was replaced as the managers of this fund in October last year, it was the worst performer in its category over one, three, five and ten years. Its underperformance was so dramatic that its three year returns to the end of September were negative. For a multi-asset fund in a period when the FTSE/JSE All Share Index had shown annual growth of over 15%, this was remarkably poor.So what went wrong? In a nutshell, Nedgroup Investments had made some very basic investment mistakes.Selecting the wrong manager for the wrong reasonsWhen RECM was appointed to manage the fund in the early 2000s, the company had been generating exceptional returns and its reputation was soaring. At the time, few people would have questioned the firm&#8217;s appointment as a &#8216;best of breed&#8217; manager.However, it has become clear that Nedgroup Investments failed to appreciate the extent to which this performance was due to market conditions. As a deep value manager, RECM will deliver these periods of remarkable outperformance, but deep value investing will also come with times of massive underperformance. That is the nature of the style, as market cycles will either reward or punish it at the extremes.RECM did not suddenly become a bad asset manager three years ago. The company has continued to do what it has always done. However, the cycle in which the market founds itself was profoundly negative for deep value investing and this was reflected in its returns.By removing RECM as manager of the Managed Fund, Nedgroup Investments effectively acknowledged that it didn&#8217;t properly take into account that even in a multi-asset portfolio, deep value investing will be highly volatile.RECM was therefore not an appropriate manager choice. Not because it is a bad manager, but because its management style was inevitably going to contradict the fund&#8217;s objective of delivering stable returns.Holding onto your mistakes for too longIt&#8217;s not unfair to say that Nedgroup Investments must have realised that it had potentially made a mistake long before the fund&#8217;s most recent challenges. In the lead up to the credit crisis, the Managed Fund was also a significant underperformer.In the late bull market of 2007, the fund held no resource stocks at a time when this sector was in a massive rally. It therefore trailed most of the funds in its sector.However, the performance it delivered when the markets crashed was outstanding. It was flat when most of its peers were down 20%. This more than made up for the previous yearThose investors who stayed the course would have ultimately benefited, but already this was an indication of what RECM&#8217;s deep value style was going to deliver. Returns were going to be volatile and tend towards extremes.Of course it would have been incredibly difficult for Nedgroup Investments to change managers when RECM&#8217;s philosophy had just been vindicated, but at that point the company must have known what it was dealing with. And if it wasn&#8217;t prepared to accept this risk-return profile, it should have been prepared to act a lot sooner when the next period of underperformance hit.As it happened, Nedgroup Investments held out in the hope that the cycle would turn and once again the fund would be saved when things turned in its favour. Eventually, however, the cycle went on for too long and they were forced to capitulate.Selling low to buy highThe almost inevitable result of holding onto a mistake for too long is that you are going to end up selling at the bottom. The point where the pain becomes unbearable, is likely to be the point where things can&#8217;t get much worse.As it turned out, this is exactly what happened. Nedgroup Investments replaced RECM as managers only a couple of months before deep value investing started to once again find some traction.To make this point clearer, for the year to date the RECM Balanced Fund has gained just under 20%. The Truffle Balanced Fund, managed by the company that now runs the Managed Fund, is up just 1%.The performance of these portfolios won&#8217;t exactly match the relative difference between what investors might have seen in the Managed Fund, but they do give an indication. It is clear that investors have missed out on a rally in value stocks, and the decision to change the fund manager has effectively locked in losses.The moral of the storyThe point to be made is not that Nedgroup Investments is incompetent. On the contrary, the performance of the majority of its portfolio shows that this is an outstanding company.It is precisely the fact that Nedgroup Investments is so good that the lesson is even more profound. If a company that possesses such resources and skill could still make such basic mistakes, how can the average investor hope to avoid doing the same?The reality is that every day investors are doing exactly what Nedgroup Investments did. They are chasing performance and selling and buying at exactly the wrong time.If Nedgroup Investments couldn&#8217;t get this right, then the average investor really has no chance of doing any better. So don&#8217;t overestimate your own abilities. Do proper research on the managers you select, and be prepared to stick with them over the long term. That is the only guarantee of investment success.