The first state witness in the long-awaited trial of Tigon kingpins Gary Porritt and Sue Bennett on Tuesday related how his excellent performance in an investment competition inspired a failed and allegedly illegal investment scheme.Porritt and Bennett face more than 3 000 offences, including fraud and racketeering, following the collapse of Jack Milne s asset management fund Progressive System College Guaranteed Growth Ltd (PSCGG). Tigon, with Porritt as managing director and Bennett his right-hand woman, was contracted to guarantee the fund s performance.Almost 3 000 investors lost a combined R162 million after Porritt s listed Tigon financial services group failed to honour a guarantee to PSCGG. Porritt was arrested in 2002 and Bennett in 2003 and the pair brought several applications that delayed the hearing until Monday, when it eventually kicked off.Milne on Monday told the court how in 1998 he won an investment competition run by well-known investment strategist Magnus Heystek. In an effort to prove which of their investment strategies delivered the best results, he, Heystek, Lionel Karp and Derek Sumption each invested R100 per month over five years in their preferred investment vehicle.Milne chose a self-managed common stock portfolio as opposed to Heystek s unit trusts, Karp s smooth bonus endowment and policy from Old Mutual and Sumption s unitised endowment from Time Life. At the end of the period, Heystek s investment shrunk to R5 800. Sumption and Karp had R7 000 and R7 400 to show respectively, while Milne s portfolio shot the lights out with R33 220.Heystek responded to these claims on Wednesday and said it was nothing more than a &#8220;tongue-in-the-cheek&#8221; competition and that he asked for an audit of Milne&#8217;s performance, which Milne refused. (Read Heystek&#8217;s full response below).This, Milne told the court, was well publicised and raised his public profile considerably. He increasingly understood his reputation as a financial guru to be an asset to Progressive System College (PSC), the company that he founded and led.Milne explained how he met Porritt, then MD of Tigon, a JSE-listed financial services company and the best-performing share on the JSE at that stage.Porritt impressed Milne immensely and he introduced Porritt to the PSC board, which led to Porritt making an offer for Tigon to purchase 70% of the issued shares in all the companies in the PSC group.The strategy was for Tigon to grow PSC through its superior marketing abilities.He said Porritt showed him the Tigon share register, demonstrating that he controlled about 80% of the issued share capital in Tigon directly or indirectly. He said if they could raise capital through the new vehicle, he could easily cause the Tigon share price to rise.Milne told the court that Porritt suggested they establish an investment vehicle following the same investment strategy Milne followed in the competition, which Milne s PSC group had been teaching investors for 18 years. The fund would buy shares in Tigon and its listed subsidiary Shawcell.Porritt also proposed listing Tigon on the London Stock Exchange as Didata had done quite successfully not long before. This, Milne said, allayed his concerns about Tigon being thinly traded and the difficulty he might experience in liquidating its shares if needed.Milne said he knew that share manipulation and insider trading were both illegal, but also knew that it was quite common among CEOs of listed companies and some made a pretty penny that way.He also knew that nobody had ever been convicted of insider trading on the JSE.Milne, who earlier served eleven months of a five-year sentence following the collapse of PSCGG, said he thought hard about Porritt s scheme, but in the end supported it for several reasons: he was under pressure from PSC staff and other directors to re-enter the asset management business; he desperately needed a new product to sell to existing clients to boost the loss-making PSC; and Porritt and Bennett were very persuasive as they recognised the potential of Milne s achievement in the competition as a mechanism to raise significant capital from the public.Milne said he was also keen to show up the relatively pedestrian performance of traditional institutional investors such as unit trusts and investment insurance policies. He took note of Didata s successful London listing and the rise in its share price from R22 to R70 in the run-up to the event. Porritt further suggested that Tigon, with a market capitalisation of about R3 billion at that stage, would guarantee investors a performance at least as good as that of domestic unit trusts.They decided to use a public, unlisted company as the investment vehicle because neither the JSE Control Act, nor the Unit Trust Act applied and the Financial Services Board did not control them. The only legislation to comply with would be the Companies Act, Milne said.Some of the charges against the accused include that they, together with Milne and other individuals, made false statements in the PSCGG prospectus and did so falsely and deliberately to deceive the public.This included that Milne would control the funds raised and manage them using the method taught by PSC and followed by Milne in the competition.The State alleges that the accused had no intention of honouring the guarantee to PSCGG and created the false impression that the worst investment performance the investment fund could deliver would be equal to that of domestic unit trusts. This impression was created to encourage members of the public to invest in PSCGG, the State alleges.Milne will resume his testimony on Wednesday.Porritt and Bennett have been granted bail, which was extended on the same conditions as before.Magnus Heystek responded by providing the following context:Lionel Karp, Jack Milne and Derek Sumption were all regular guests on my program on Radio 702 Financially Speaking . That was in the late nineties, I think 1997.Each had their favourite investment methodology. Mine was unit trusts, Sumption and Karp s were endowment policies and Milne s shares. We then started a tongue-in-the-cheek competition with a monthly contribution of R100.My involvement with 702 ended in 2001.I think it was around 2001 or 2002 when Milne approached me with proof that he won the competition which I had long forgotten about. He wanted me to address it on 702, which was no longer possible. By then I also cancelled my debit order. I simply did not believe his performance numbers and wanted an audit done, which he refused.In some or other way the editor of The Saturday Star who had nothing to do with this agreed to publish an article about this competition, much against my will. Jack then used this article and proof of his investment success as part of his marketing campaign for PSC Growth Fund.Jack came to see me once more to try and convince me to invest in his fund on behalf of my clients. After asking a few questions which he was unable to answer, I simply said no.When I asked him what technique he uses to achieve these super-profits, he responded: That is my secret and if I tell you, everybody will do it. That is where my involvement with Milne ended and I never saw or heard of him again.