The economy of Tanzania is projected to grow by 7,2% this year and 7,4% in 2017, according to a statement by the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) in March 2016. As such, there are good opportunities for investors, especially within the oil and gas, energy, telecommunication, real estate, agriculture, livestock and fisheries, agro processing and manufacturing sectors. There are also opportunities to invest in social infrastructure. The key drivers of growth in Tanzania include its moderate and stable inflation rate and the accumulation of international reserve in the country. The favourable foreign exchange rate is an attractive plus for foreign investors. The growth of technology and a relatively accessible infrastructure also make it easier for investors to consider doing business in Tanzania. In addition, the increased life expectancy of its citizens with decreasing poverty rates, thanks to a higher per capita income, are creating opportunities for investors. To spur growth, the country needs better corporate governance guidelines and more financial accessibility for small and medium entrepreneurs. The balancing of public interest with investment interest requires policy action such as investor protection, increased transparency and improved regulation of investment funds. This will go a long way towards ensuring that investments are sustainable and positive for the country. Foreign investors want a stable legal and regulatory framework, with strong business policies and competition law in countries in which they do business. Sectors seeing the most M&A deals and direct foreign investment in Tanzania are tourism, construction, banking, telecoms, mining, energy, oil and gas, transportation and agriculture. PPPs are on the increase and are regulated by law. The risks for investors include food price inflation and the rising costs of doing business. The country’s infrastructure deficit, which may also present an opportunity, is another risk. Other investments risks include trade barriers and the possible competition with public sector firms. The mechanisms needed to manage corporate risks include ensuring that corporates have active boards with senior management oversight and accountability. The implementation of adequate policies, procedures and limits to mitigate risk is also important for all businesses in Tanzania. The use of adequate risk measurement, monitoring and management information systems and comprehensive internal controls is also essential to reduce investment risks. Building the right infrastructure, creating institutional arrangements and disseminating the right investment information can spur growth and reduce obstacles to investment. Investments are governed by the Tanzania Investment Act, No. 26 of 1997, which is the general law cutting across all types of investments. However, there are sectoral laws that govern every sector of investment. Depending on the sector of investment, an investor is required to fulfil all the requirements specified by the respective authority. To create a conducive environment for investors, the Government established The Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), which is the focal point for all investors’ inquiries and facilitates project start-ups. It further provides for joint venture opportunities between local and foreign investors and disseminates investment information.  Hawa Juma  Stella Ndikimi Juma is an advocate and Ndikimi a managing partner at the East African Law Chambers office in Tanzania (This article first appeared in DealMakers, SA’s quarterly M&A magazine)