JOHANNESBURG – Taxpayers entering into transactions purely to obtain a tax benefit related to the disposal of their SABMiller shares following the takeover by Anheuser-Busch InBev may run into difficulties with the South African Revenue Service. One option shareholders may have pondered is to defer a tax liability that could otherwise be triggered when the shares are sold, by swapping the shares for units in a collective investment scheme (unit trust) instead of taking cash (an asset-for-share transaction). The Income Tax Act (section 42) allows for the postponement of any potential capital gains tax on the disposal of the original shares until the original shareholders dispose of the units received in exchange from the unit trusts. “Sars wishes to point out that this may be true for the original shareholders but the tax consequences for the Schemes must also be considered,” it said in a statement on Friday. The Revenue Authority said it was clear that the unit trusts would acquire the shares with the purpose of disposing of them within a relatively short period in the takeover. It advised unit trusts to consider whether the proceeds from the sale of the shares as part of the takeover would be of a capital nature. “Sars would like to point out that if it is found that the proceeds are instead on revenue account it will have a detrimental effect on the Scheme and particularly current unit holders.” While it stressed that it has not made any decision on the question yet, its statement suggests that taxpayers involved should gear up for close scrutiny. Sars said unit trusts were unlikely to distribute profits to unit holders within twelve months and thus the schemes would have to pay tax on any profits derived from the transactions. “Should the profits be distributed within twelve months, the unit holders in the Schemes will have to pay tax on the profits.” The Taxman also seems to be concerned that some of these transactions may be regarded as impermissible avoidance arrangements. “Given that the transactions are aimed at postponing potential capital gains tax liabilities, two of the requirements for the existence of an impermissible avoidance arrangement appear to have been met. These are that the transactions result in a tax benefit, which includes the postponement of tax, and that the transactions’ sole or main purpose was to obtain a tax benefit.” Sars said a thorough analysis of the facts and circumstances of the transactions would be required to determine if this was the case. “Sars wishes to advise original shareholders and Schemes to carefully consider the questions… with respect to any decisions to enter into the transactions described.” Piet Nel, head of the School of Applied Tax at the South African Institute of Tax Professionals (Sait), said if Sars determined that an impermissible avoidance arrangement existed, the special rollover rules for capital gains tax wouldn’t apply. This includes section 42. Taxpayers would have to prove that there were other commercial reasons for entering into the transaction, which would be very difficult if it was done purely for the sake of delaying capital gains tax payments, he added.