The fall in commodity prices and the fear of the Chinese economy slowing down caused panic amongst investors about the risk of investing in Africa. In the past year, the continent has experienced stronger headwinds than in recent times.China&#8217;s slowdown aggravated painful corrections among African nations that had their fortunes tied to resources. The excessive reliance on resources, coupled with the failure to use the commodity boom to industrialise their economies, meant that African countries found themselves hostage to China s turbulence.In its sixth annual edition, RMB s Where to Invest in Africa A Guide to Corporate Investment report highlights that Africa is still open for business. With the theme &#8216;Back to the Future , the latest report plots the growth of African economies using the RMB Investment Attractiveness Index. We highlight that we have to look at the past to see what s going to happen in the future, says RMB Africa analyst and co-author of the report, Celeste Fauconnier.According to the report, the decision to invest is based on a combination of qualitative and quantitative factors. The team based its methodology on three pillars:&nbsp;Fauconnier says they tried to do look at economies according to very strict methodology, using fundamental pillars that balance both macroeconomic and the practicalities of doing business.RMB s top ten investment destinations include North African countries, with Tanzania and Ghana climbing up the ranks. South Africa continues to top the list while Nigeria and Egypt battle for second place.Although South Africa still stands firm at the number one spot, RMB warns that the country risks losing its coveted position if weak growth and an uncertain business environment persist. Egypt has the potential to unseat South Africa as the leading investment destination on the continent, if it succeeds in getting its economy back on track following the aftermath of the Arab Spring. Earlier in August, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) rushed to Egypt&#8217;s rescue, announcing a three-year loan package of $12 billion to assist the nation.Maintaining its number three position for the second consecutive year is Morocco, which is hot on the heels of its North African peer. Substantial economic growth, favourable geographic positioning, sturdy infrastructure, strong regulatory policies and a stable political setting support the ranking.Nigeria lost its number five spot to Kenya, as a result of a dismal economic growth outlook and a weak operating environment. Although the West African nation is regarded as a viable long-term investment destination, it will be forced to navigate through the painful structural adjustments over the next few years to move the country forward. With the rankings, you as a client still need to conduct further studies. We can take it further by helping the client make other decisions, says Fauconnier. Although RMB is optimistic about business opportunities in Africa, operating on the continent comes with a unique set of risks, which could discourage investors from wanting to enter certain markets. Navigating Africa s vast terrain is not easy, even for the most experienced of investors. While the continent offers superior returns compared to most emerging market economies, it can&#8217;t be painted with the same brush, says Fauconnier.A pleasant surprise for the RMB Africa team was Cote d Iviore. After years of political paralysis, the world s top cocoa producer earned its place at number eight, supported by an emerging middle class, a booming economy, robust infrastructure development and an improved business environment. &#8220;Six years ago the country ranked somewhere in the mid-20s and -30s, and they have reformed themselves quite significantly. We are actually seeing a lot of investment flowing into that Africa country,&#8221; says Fauconnier. While commodities remain plentiful across the African landscape, the fluctuating prices have prompted governments to look at other sectors for growth. Resources are still the primary driver, but in certain countries it is services which makes us happy &#8211; which just means that there isn t a focus on one particular type of commodity, says Fauconnier. She says East Africa is an excellent example because the region is diversified in areas such as the services sector, financial sector, tourism and telecommunications.The two most under-invested areas in Africa include power and agriculture. Like agriculture, energy is crucial to sustainable growth. However, the sector is struggling with a plethora of constraints such as funding. RMB notes that the amount of financing required to power the continent is far greater than what any donor or government can reasonably provide, which necessitates the need for private funding. Since the launch of the report five years ago, the top three most problematic factors for doing business have remained consistent. Over the past year, access to financing, corruption, and inadequate infrastructure remain key issues that stand in the way of doing business. As China rebalances, Africa clearly needs to rebalance as well. However, economic growth prospects across the continent remain resilient.This article was sponsored by RMB.