SIKI MGABADELI:  It’s call-in Friday and we are trying to help you to pick the best car for yourself. So of you are thinking about selling or trading in your car right now, getting that car you’ve always wanted, or downsizing, we are going to tell you how to do that. Warren Tucker is The Car Guy, and he joins us now. The first caller will receive the book The New Manager: How to become a leader in 52 simple steps by Steven Jacobs. So as Wayne thinks, is the Jaguar a good car? WARREN TUCKER:  Brilliant cars. They look good, they sound good, they’ve got this English pedigree to them. Maintenance bills, UK based, you are going to pay in pounds for the parts – and we were chatting about all the logistics around what’s happening in the economy at the moment. SIKI MGABADELI:  And the importing, so the rand is going to affect how much you are going to pay. WARREN TUCKER:  Exactly. Most of these cars are still owned when people buy them, and if you are fortunate enough to buy them new, they’ll come with some sort of sales plan or warranty and you’ll be catered for at least five years or 100km. And if you are still within the means to drive that vehicle, you would trade it in and purchase a new one. That means that the main side of things would not hit your pocket; you’d just be changing the vehicle and buying a new one every time. Obviously the price of a vehicle would increase when a new model comes out, and that’s got to do with the rand/dollar exchange, the fact that the new model might or might not have better features –it’s basic economics as far as that goes. SIKI MGABADELI:  When you are thinking about getting a car, what are the things you need to think about? WARREN TUCKER:  Vehicles are purchased on emotion. A lot of the time people will look at this vehicle and it will elicit some sort of emotion out of them. Our discussion we were having— SIKI MGABADELI:  I told you I love Minis. WARREN TUCKER:  Exactly. Like I said, I watched The Italian Job, the remake of the movie. I saw the Mini in action there and I wanted one and I went out and bought one. Those are the kind of ways that people will purchase a vehicle. Or, if there is a need, there is family that’s got big and the hatchback doesn’t work any more and they need a mom’s taxi, they will look at something along those lines. But it also needs to meet a budget, it needs to meet a budget requirement. I always say this to people – if you are walking into a dealership and you are buying a vehicle, once the salesman has done his thing and rubbed all his charm off on you, with “this is the car for you”, take two steps back, walk out of the dealership and come back tomorrow. Remember, these sales guys are trained to get you in there to sign for these vehicles. They are doing their jobs at the end of the day. However, a lot of the time you’ll find that somebody has purchased a car that might not be what they actually wanted at the time, but while they were there it was an impulse buy. Remember, you’ve purchased this vehicle and chances are that you’ve purchased it on hire purchase. There’s interest, there’s all these other wonderful things. You can’t just trade out of the vehicle as you feel like. Colours are also important. Buying a pink vehicle, buying a red vehicle, these are colours that you love, but are they attractive to the next person when you want to sell the vehicle? SIKI MGABADELI:  Also as South Africans we are very brand-conscious, and we like driving the latest thing. So selling your car or trading it in is something that most of us have to deal with. So what should you consider when it comes to that? WARREN TUCKER:  Again, if you are going to trade your vehicle in, if you’ve purchased your car and it’s a year old, you’ve traded in in, Johannesburg is a big place. If you read your fine print, some vehicles have a mileage stipulation. And if you’ve got a lease that will say you can only do 20 000km per annum. If you go over that there’s a penalty, and it is normally spelt out quite clearly – a rand value penalty. If you’ve got a performance car, those kinds of vehicles, it’s 15 000 to 10 000km a year – those are your high-end vehicles, your Ferraris, your Porsches, those kinds of things. SIKI MGABADELI:  Maseratis and so on. WARREN TUCKER:  There we go. So if you’ve purchased and we’ll use this as an example – if you’ve purchased a hot hatch, you’ve bought a Golf GTI, and you’ve done 100 000km in the first year of ownership, when you try and trade that vehicle in, you are going to be paying in quite a bit of money because you’ve literally utilised the entire warranty in a year. You’ve also gone over and above the average mileage stipulation for that year. So it’s a balancing act. You need to see what your requirement is. Are you a sales rep? Yes, I’m a sales rep. You shouldn’t be buying a big, expensive car if you are a sales rep, because you are going to be driving around and clocking up mileage on it and, before you know it, it’s going to be worth nothing. So again, it boils down to requirements. What is it that you are going to utilise this vehicle for? There are so many people that drive these big SUVs and that SUV has never, ever seen a dirt puddle in its life. SIKI MGABADELI:  No dirt road ever. WARREN TUCKER:  Exactly. SIKI MGABADELI:  Let’s take some calls. Alex in Port Elizabeth, hi. ALEX:  Why is it useful to have a smaller car which is light in consumption in contrast to a bigger car which might be useful for you for long distances, going to Cape Town or Joburg? WARREN TUCKER:  Listening to your question, you’ve kind of answered your question right there. A smaller car would be economical in a smaller town because it uses less fuel. It’s got a smaller engine. If you are in the town and you are going from point A to point B, let’s say you are in a small town like Klerksdorp or Kimberley, or one of those places, you are fine. A bigger vehicle would be overkill in a small town like that. It’s going to use up quite a bit of fuel. But on the long road if you travel long distances all the time, you are going to get your money’s worth out of it. You are going to get good consumption out of the vehicle. SIKI MGABADELI:  Okay, let’s take Sandile in Durban. Hi, Sandile. SANDILE:  Good evening, Siki. My question here to you is that I bought a Ford Figo last year in February and I travel a lot using it for work. When I bought it the mileage was at just over 8 000km, and today we are speaking of 85 000. WARREN TUCKER:  Phew. SANDILE: So I’ve been considering trading it in. Now, first and foremost, I’m not sure whether it’s a good idea to trade it in or should I just keep it, because essentially I’m happy with car. But I don’t know whether I should just trade it in for a newer version or is there something else that I could get for it? I’m specifically looking for something that is diesel because what I drive is also diesel. WARREN TUCKER:  I take it that you are a sales rep, you are on the road quite a bit, so you are moving between clients? Sandile must be listening on air, so for me what stands out there is he purchased it with 8 000km and it’s now got 85 000km on it, which has been done in a year. It means that he travels quite a bit. The plus side of that is, if he’s a travelling salesman or a sales rep there’s a tax benefit for him to claim back on that vehicle. The vehicle is a 2014 model, so it’s still within the five years. My advice to him would be to drive the vehicle until it has done 200 000km or three years, and then get rid of it and move on to the next vehicle. By him selling the vehicle right now, he’s going to do himself in. SIKI MGABADELI:  And, like you said, he doesn’t mind the vehicle. He doesn’t have an issue with it. Right, we are giving that book to Sandile – The New Manager: How to become a leader in 52 simple steps. Let’s hear from Casis in Limpopo. Hi, Casis. CASIS:  Hi, how are you? I want to know if you borrow the money from the bank to buy a car, what is the interest for paying the bank? WARREN TUCKER:  So you are buying a vehicle from a dealership and you are going to put finance on the vehicle. The interest rate is purely calculated on your profile. So they will ask you to submit three months’ bank statements, they will ask you for proof that you earn a salary, and they will do a credit check on you. And your interest rates will be based on how you’ve conducted yourself with regard to accounts in the past. So if you have a good rating, you should get a preferential interest rate If you’ve got a bad rating they might decline your finance outright if you are blacklisted or have judgments against you. SIKI MGABADELI:  And a final question for you, just on that, the buying and the trading-in aspect of things – would you say when you’ve reached that break-even moment, it is time to start to consider if you want to get— WARREN TUCKER:  If you are someone who wants to drive the latest vehicle, then I’d say look at it. But anything before that you are going to pay in money, which means that with the next vehicle chances are you are going to do the same thing, which means you are going to pay in again. South Africans generally have moved away from paying off vehicles. People want to lease. Leasing has become quite popular, because you are leasing a vehicle and you are going to drive the latest vehicle every time. But you never, ever own the vehicle. So you will always be changing, changing the car. People who purchase, hire purchase or have traditional finance, as we know, over 54 months – they would then purchase the vehicle, pay the car off, maybe give it to the son when he graduates from school, and buy themselves another vehicle. It basically boils down to what you need it for. SIKI MGABADELI:  Right, we are going to have you back. Thanks so much for your time today. Warren Tucker is The Car Guy.