JOHANNESBURG Regulatory changes in the retirement industry and greater longevity suggest that individuals globally will increasingly have to take personal responsibility to ensure a comfortable retirement with government and employers taking a back seat.Speaking at the FPI Retirement and Investment Conference, Rex Cowley, co-founder of Overseas Trust &amp; Pension, said last year only 2% of all new pension schemes established in 19 major pension markets globally were defined benefit schemes.In a defined benefit environment, the employer bears the risk of worse than expected investment returns (investment risk) and the risk that the member lives longer than expected (longevity risk). As people are living longer and change jobs more frequently there has been a move from defined benefit to defined contribution schemes where the member carries these risks.Globally the vast majority of defined benefit schemes have been closed to new members and more than half of these schemes did not have sufficient assets to meet their long-term liabilities, Cowley said. So you have got significant pension deficits in DB [defined benefit] schemes and hence the change from an employer perspective. RegulationOn the regulatory front, most G20 countries have made amendments to both social security and tax policy in the last 18 months in relation to pensions.Cowley said there was a global trend to introduce a cap on contributions.This was also the case in South Africa. From March 1 this year, tax-deductible contributions to pension funds, provident funds and retirement annuities have been capped at R350 000 per annum.On top of these types of caps, there was also a global move towards the introduction of lifetime allowances. So on top of your cap there is actually a total maximum which you can grow your funds to and thereafter they impose tax penalties. In some instances the retirement age was also pushed out.In combination these trends effectively meant that employers and governments were moving investment risk, mortality risk and funding risk from the employer to the individual, Cowley said.Governments themselves were also reducing their financial exposure to the support in terms of retirement, he said.There was also a global move to means tested pensions. We expect that all government schemes around the world will become means tested, so only people that really should benefit from them will get it irrespective of whether you contributed to the system. So it&#8217;s all about the individual having to make provision for themselves in retirement. That s very, very clearly a theme, he said.LongevityWhat potentially complicates the situation is the fact that individuals are living longer on average.According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development s (OECD&#8217;s) latest survey on population dynamics, the fastest growing population sector is over-75s, he said.In the 1940s, the average American would work to around the age of 68, retire and would die by the age of 73, which meant that retirement provision only had to last five years. If the person had a spouse, the provision probably had to last another four or five years.Today, that same person would work to the age of 58 and die at the age of 85. That meant that on average, the retirement period that has to be funded has grown to 27 years, Cowley said.Cowley said the move to defined contribution funds meant that individuals have to put significantly more assets aside or in the very least start planning for retirement.Given all the changes, there are a lot of challenges facing clients and the result is that the responsibility is on their shoulders to provide for themselves, he said.