JOHANNESBURG – Around 15% of overall South African exports to the UK amounting to roughly $854 million a year could face significantly higher tariffs if the UK formally leaves the European Union, calculations from DNA Economics have shown. For most South African exporters to the UK, however, Brexit does not look like a serious risk from a tariff and trade policy perspective, Dr Matthew Stern, director at DNA Economics, told members of the South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Sacci) on Thursday. “Eighty-five percent of South African exports to the UK do not benefit much from the preferences that are provided for under the current trade agreement in place between South Africa and Europe, and they therefore have little to lose from any change in bilateral trade policy arising out of Brexit. But around 15% of South Africa’s exports to the UK do benefit significantly from the existing bilateral agreement, and exporters of these products might want to think about alternative markets or adjustment options before the UK exits from this agreement.” The calculation was based on an analysis of big export items from South Africa to the UK (products where exports on average amount to more than $5 million per year). Ninety-one percent of products fell into this category. A short-list of high-risk products was then identified by considering those exports that receive a preference margin of more than 5% from the Trade and Development Co-operation Agreement (TDCA), which has since been superseded by the economic partnership agreement (EPA). It is this preference margin that may be lost when the UK exits the EU; unless an equivalent agreement is quickly put in place. UK exports over time While the UK has historically been a very important trading partner for South Africa, its importance has declined quite markedly over the last decade. Stern said South African exports to the UK as a percentage of total exports had fallen from around 11% in 2001 to 4% in 2015 as other developing countries (most notably China) have begun to absorb increasing shares of South African trade. In 2001 the UK was South Africa’s second most important export destination after the US, but it has moved down the ranks to sixth position in 2015. “As our sixth largest export market the UK is still very important, but its share of South Africa’s exports has declined markedly over the last decade.” Stern added that the UK was South Africa’s largest and most important trading partner in Europe for an extended period of time (accounting for almost a third of local exports to the continent), but it has recently been overtaken by Germany. Nevertheless, it still accounts for 20% of South Africa’s total trade with the EU. Sectors at risk Stern highlighted three export sectors that benefit most from EU preferences in the UK, and are therefore most at risk: fruit, vehicles and wine. For certain fruit, the UK accounted for almost all of South African’s exports to the European market. “For them [these exporters] Brexit should be a big issue.” The UK also accounted for the bulk of South African wine exports into Europe. While there is no ad valorem tariff on wine exports, data provided by the Wine Institute suggested that the tariff equivalent would be about 30%. “So if the EPA fell away, and UK tariffs were maintained at current EU levels, the tariff on bottled wine from South Africa to the UK would increase by 30%.” In the case of vehicles, the UK was not a particularly sizeable market – most South African vehicle exports went into Europe directly and the tariff equivalent was around 10%, Stern said. Peter Draper, managing director of the Tutwa Consulting Group, added that whatever South Africa ultimately decided to do, its custom union partners would have to concur. “We are part of a common external tariff, so we negotiate together with four other countries – Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia and Swaziland. They have to agree, so it is the prerequisite for all the [Brexit] scenarios,” he said. This could introduce challenges, as there are different interests and issues within Sacu that go beyond trade.