SIKI MGABADELI: It&#8217;s time now for our Tipping Point feature, which is about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are. Today my colleague Tumisang Ndlovu caught up with renowned businessman Romeo Kumalo and he takes us through his journey.ROMEO KUMALO: I started in the media business. It&#8217;s strange, because everybody knows me as being in the media business, having been on the radio. But actually that s not what I really did for a living.TUMISANG NDLOVU: There is so much more!ROMEO KUMALO: I was only on the radio over the weekends. But it&#8217;s strange because people get to know you as the voice on the radio, and not really know what&#8217;s happening in your life.But I was always in business. I started in business earlier on in my life and at some stage I got out of public life completely and focused on growing a business. But still, I get people who say: When are you getting back on the radio? The last time I was on the radio was 16 years ago.TUMISANG NDLOVU: It was eons ago. I was still in high school.ROMEO KUMALO: Yes, 16 years ago was the last time I was on the radio and people still ask me about when I&#8217;m getting back on the radio.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Will it ever happen?ROMEO KUMALO: No, no, no. I wasn t good at it anyway.TUMISANG NDLOVU: That s your opinion.ROMEO KUMALO: I wasn t good at it and so I wouldn t make a career out of it. No, it ll never happen again. I&#8217;m focused on business. I love the business of making money.TUMISANG NDLOVU: As a former executive in the mobile phone space, what are your views on the increasing calls for affordable data in South Africa. Some call it #DataMustFall. What is your opinion on this matter?ROMEO KUMALO: I think we are missing a great opportunity in the country, particularly for small and medium-sized businesses, because I know a lot of people talk about Data Must Fall in relation to surfing, social media, Facebook, Twitter and all of that.But I think the high fees and the high cost of data are actually letting us down around growing small and medium-sized businesses. So I think there is an opportunity here for mobile operators to relook their cost structures, to relook their profit margins and really think about how we can bring the cost of connectivity down, because that will help us to grow small and medium-sized businesses.So I&#8217;m fully behind the call to bring down the cost of data, and I think that with everybody working together the government, the mobile operators, the regulator there is an opportunity here to bring down the cost of connectivity.And when you look at the mobile operators, obviously voice revenues are going down, so I think they are trying to make up all those profits with high data costs.So I&#8217;m hoping that the government will release spectrum, the regulator will play its part, because I don t think there is any incentive for the mobile operators to bring down the cost. It&#8217;s going to have to be a push from the regulator and the government.TUMISANG NDLOVU: And as consumers we are doing our bit. We are buying.ROMEO KUMALO: Look, we now live in a data-centric world where everything is about data. People don t even send SMSes any more. And so that s the world we live in, and that s the world that we have to focus on how we can bring a lot more people into that world. We&#8217;ve got less than a 60% data penetration in the country and so, to bring more people into the mainstream of the economy, you ve got to make it possible for people to get connectivity affordably.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Most definitely. Let&#8217;s talk a bit about the fun side of money. What has been your biggest money lesson over the years, whether a regret or something that your learnt and fixed along the way?ROMEO KUMALO: Ooh, I started working early in my life. At 14 I was working at a CNA, at the record bar of the CNA. I&#8217;ve worked as a packer at a Pick n Pay. I worked as a waiter when I was a student. I worked at Pizza Hut in Hillbrow. I worked at Pizza Hut in Sandton as a waiter when I was a student.I started dealing with my own money at a very early age because my parents encouraged it. In fact, my first job that my mom got for me was as a packer at a Pick n Pay. Go and pack at Pick n Pay on a Saturday afternoon it was a tough job. And then I worked at the CNA. It was nice playing music at a record bar. But you start dealing with money and you start learning how to save.So for me the biggest lesson for myself and for many other people out there, particularly young people, is just learning how to save early on in your life.SIKI MGABADELI: That was Romeo Kumalo, speaking to Tumisang Ndlovu.&nbsp;