TUMISANG NDLOVU: We extend our discussion on smart e-commerce in our seven-week PayPal series here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000. We ve spent quite a lot of time chatting about e-commerce, especially cross-border online shopping, e-commerce comes in all shapes and sizes, from selling an actual item like a T-shirt that needs to be physically delivered, to selling an experience, such as a holiday or a training course, to selling a service as a designer creating a new logo for a company. Efi Dahan, PayPal s general manager for Africa and Israel, will take us through this. Efi, what are the best ways to use PayPal to receive payment from abroad?EFI DAHAN: PayPal offers several products and services, and it s very important to consult with PayPal and select the best product fitted to your business. I ll give you a few examples, if you have a website without e-commerce then it s easier to use our service called invoice, you just send a request for payment to the customer and they get a link with the amount and they can just pay with PayPal. It s easy and simple, the customer can pay with a credit card or by using PayPal and the merchant receives the payment instantly. So this is a basic service that is very relevant to this market. A lot of merchants don t have sophisticated e-commerce websites yet, a lot of merchants from the travel industry want to get paid and this is a very basic service, you can use it through your mobile device, desktop, laptop, any device. This is a basic service. If you have an e-commerce website then we prefer to offer you express checkout, which is one of the best services that we can offer to reduce the friction from your website and help you to sell. This is very good for opportunities where it is a one-payment event. We also offer a few other services, which is more relevant as a subscription service, if you want to charge on a monthly basis or a few times in a row it s better to give me permission to charge you in the future. This is the kind of billing agreement that we can offer. So it s good to understand the needs of the business, what you want to do and we can help you to find the best product to improve your sales and your business.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Great stuff. Now you don t necessarily need a website or a full e-commerce website at that?EFI DAHAN: Correct and you can use the PayPal application on your mobile to send a request for payment, it s very, very easy process, it s very fast. You just send a link and the recipient just clicks on the link and pays with PayPal using a password. We also offer One Touch, you don t really need anything else other than your username and password.TUMISANG NDLOVU: I like the word easy. Does the express checkout then improve conversions as well?EFI DAHAN: Definitely, as you know, it s all about bringing traffic and potential buyers to a website and making sure that you can make the most out of that. So if you bring 100 potential buyers, you are trying to get as much as you can out of that and express checkout will make your process much faster than any other way. You don t need to type in your 16-digit credit card number, you don t need to enter the card s expiry date, you don t need to enter the three-digit CVV number and you don t need to enter your shipping address because it will be taken from your PayPal account. So it s much easier, a much faster process and more secure.TUMISANG NDLOVU: I like the word secure. On that note, why is it so quick and easy for PayPal to offer this service that provides benefits for both the merchant and the consumer?EFI DAHAN: It s not so easy. Since we founded PayPal in 1998 we invested a lot of money and we will continue to invest in order to give better service, better user experience from any device to any market and more secure. One of the advantages of PayPal is that we are sitting between the merchant and the consumer, and we can analyse all the transaction history, we can check on any transaction, more than 1000 parameters, taking into account in our decision to let that transaction go through or to block that. So this is the advantage of PayPal and we started from day one to be an online payment solution, rather than other companies that started from an offline market retail business, which is a completely different story if you see the buyer face to face. So we created the most sophisticated ant-fraud [indistinct] tools in order to serve our buyers, our merchants and to keep the money safe.TUMISANG NDLOVU: We ll leave it there, thank you so much for your time. PayPal general manager for Africa and Israel, Efi Dahan, in this week s series on smart e-commerce here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000.