SIKI MGABADELI: Glacier by Sanlam has introduced a new retirement campaign where investors can find out exactly what their monthly income at retirement will be, based on how much they are currently saving. The initiative is known as the #FutureFWD retirement campaign.For more on this we are joined by Jean Lombard, who is head of business integration at Glacier by Sanlam. Jean, thanks so much for your time today. The retirement question keeps coming up, over and over and over again, because I think many of us aren t sure how to even calculate what we are going to need when that time does arrive. Isn t that part of the problem?JEAN LOMBARD: Siki, yes. Good evening to you and the listeners. I think calculating what you are going to earn in retirement is very difficult, and that s a very big step for a lot of people, and that s typically why we see the majority of people going to financial intermediaries in order to help them to calculate that.SIKI MGABADELI: So tell us about this particular campaign, then. How does it work, and what are you trying to achieve with it?JEAN LOMBARD: Siki, we started the #FutureFWD campaign, as we call it, last year. And this year in particular we&#8217;ve got a strong focus on retirement. Not enough people reach retirement with enough money, and when they realise that they haven t got enough it&#8217;s typically too late. So Glacier created this whole social experiment to find out if some people s idea of a perfect life matched the actual life that they ll be able to afford once they are retired. I must say the concept of the campaign is that people have two salaries the one that you are earning now and the one that you are busy funding with your savings and that you will one day have to live off when you retire.SIKI MGABADELI: And what did you find? Did you find that what people expected matched the reality of the situation?JEAN LOMBARD: No, not at all. I must say the majority of people we got three people that we did this social experiment with, and all three of them essentially said, well, you know what, that s not what they signed up for what their savings were worth. One participant in the campaign said that the number revealed to her what would be liveable, but it wasn t her dream, and she realised that she wanted more from life and is making plans to address that.SIKI MGABADELI: And that s important. I think once you reveal to a person what the reality is, the important thing is that they actually start to act on it. What would you advise in that regard?JEAN LOMBARD: Siki, I think it was Einstein who shared that compound interest is probably the eighth wonder of the world. And I think that s the key thing for us to get people to start saving earlier. Even if you start with R250 or R500 a month when you are 20 years old, it makes a big difference.I recently did a little scenario or exercise where we took a person aged 25, made him save to age 35 with R1 000 a month, increasing with inflation. And then we took a similar person who didn t start at age 25 and decided to spend money on a car and the luxuries of life, and only started saving at the age of 35. That person saved for 35 years till age 65, whereas the first one for only 10 years. Guess what? The first person who only saved for ten years, but started ten years earlier, had more money at retirement than the one who saved for 35 years. And that s the power of compound interest because, by the time that person number one gets to 10 years later and the other person starts saving, the value has just expanded so much with growth that the growth on that portfolio is more than what the other person is contributing.Compound interest is so phenomenal. If we can get people to start saving earlier and be more realistic about their retirement goals, then I think we&#8217;ve achieved our goals.SIKI MGABADELI: What they say about it is Compound interest those who understand it earn it; those who don t pay it. Say one wanted to participate and just get the calculation done, how do they do that?JEAN LOMBARD: Siki, the calculator is available on our website Glacier.co.za. It&#8217;s on the retirement page. At the present point in time we are just developing a standalone version as well, which we will release through the Google Play app store shortly. But I think what&#8217;s important for me to say is that this is just the calculator. This just gives you an indication of what your income would be, given your current savings and when you save you are going to save into the future.But the key thing for us when it comes to retirement is you really need to see someone who is qualified who can help you to reach your goals and get to the goals that you want for retirement. I think that s very, very important when it comes to retirement savings. I always say to people. If you happen to buy a car and you buy the wrong car or you buy a wrong house or a wrong washing machine, and something is wrong with it, you can replace that. Typically, you can replace it and you can start over. If you reach retirement without enough money, you cannot start over. There is no way that you can start saving again.SIKI MGABADELI: A good point at which to leave it. Thanks to Jean Lombard, head of business integration at Glacier by Sanlam.