&nbsp;TUMISANG NDLOVU: This segment is brought to you by Glacier by Sanlam, which is part of its latest #FutureFWD retirement campaign. Now, if somebody offered you your perfect life, chances are good that you would grab it with both hands, but the opposite happened recently when three South Africans from Glacier By Sanlam #FutureFWD Retirement campaign said no to theirs. They didn t realise that this was the offer they had already made themselves.Using the Glacier by Sanlam Retirement Salary Calculator, they were able to find out their actual monthly retirement salary based on their current savings and contributions and whether or not they can live their perfect life [with it]. Actuarial consultant at Glacier by Sanlam, Jaco-Chris Koorts, joins us to give us more details in this regard. Jaco, tell us more about this campaign, what does it entail?JACO-CHRIS KOORTS: Tumisang, it s one of the biggest providers of retirement products in the market. Glacier by Sanlam felt a responsibility to educate the public on the importance of making sufficient retirement provision. As a result we already kicked off the #FutureFWD one campaign last year, where we tried to make the largely intangible concept of retirement a bit more tangible, effectively by showing the public what the life of a retiree would look like.We created the concept that you are currently earning two salaries: the one in your bank account and then the other which you are going to have to pay yourself when you retire. We developed this calculator to provide you with a glimpse of what you would most likely be headed towards if you were to remain on the path that you are currently headed on. So we take things into account like the amount that you are saving right now, your investment risk profile and then also, of course, what you would expect as salary increases going forward.TUMISANG NDLOVU:That said, how accurate is this calculator?JACO-CHRIS KOORTS: Like all calculators, there are a few assumptions in the back end. If you dislike a rocky investment path then you re probably a conservative investor, but then you have to realise that the assumptions built into the calculator mean that you are going to earn, let s say, CPI plus 2%, for example, for the rest of your career.If you are a more risk-loving investor, that means you can set your investment risk profile to something like moderate or even moderately aggressive, which means you ll get a higher investment return but you are going to do that at a more volatile rate. So you ll have to be able to withstand those short-term volatilities for a higher long-term return. We ve chosen 4.5% a sustainable drawdown rate that you would most likely be able to supply yourself with a return income for the rest of your life.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Lastly, for what kind of person is this developed?JACO-CHRIS KOORTS: It s developed for the average man on the street, so we ve tried to keep the amount of input as little as possible and as easy to understand and as simple as possible, so that everyone can use the calculator. You do not have to be an investment professional to do it, all you need to know is some basic information about yourself: what you are currently saving, at what age you would like to retire and then you can run the calculator.It s very easy to use, there are no strings attached, nobody is going to phone you &#8211; it s literally just to give you an idea of what your likely retirement income would be.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Thank you so much for your time and input. Actuarial consultant at Glacier by Sanlam, Jaco-Chris Koorts, talking to us on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000 about their latest #FutureFWD retirement campaign.Are you actively planning to put away the right amount of money to live the kind of retirement you dream of? Visit www.glacier.co.za to find out if you are able to live your perfect life.