TUMISANG NDLOVU: Time for our last seven-week series on smart e-commerce PayPal here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000. Shopping holidays like Valentine s Day, Halloween, Mother s Day and so on are not new in South Africa, newer ones in the past few years are Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Local e-commerce sites offer incredible specials in this regard. If you have no idea what I m talking about, don t panic, Efi Dahan, PayPal s general manager for Africa and Israel, has got you covered. Efi, tell us more on how to capitalise here?EFI DAHAN: We have learned over the last couple of years about all those shopping seasons in the US, most of you may be familiar with Black Friday, which started during the 60s.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Crazy sales.EFI DAHAN: Crazy sales and all of America can take part in going to retailers and we all remember the pictures broadcasted about people sleeping in front of the door. A couple of years ago all these things moved to the internet, so today a lot of people are preferring to stay at home and do the same but from a mobile device. So Black Friday is a holiday that will start the Christmas shopping season, which is the day after Thanksgiving, and Americans and people from other markets learned that they need to prepare a list of items that they want to buy. They usually do exploring and price comparison before, and prepare everything. Once the sales start they just press the button and start shopping before someone else buys those items. Then Cyber Monday is another event, which happens on the Monday a few days after the Black Friday holiday, which started by offering online solutions to Black Friday. But today you see a lot of people are starting the season from Friday and will end the process after Monday, so it s over that weekend. It s not only in America, a lot of merchants are taking part in this event because they understand that if they are not going to offer massive discounts they are going to be out of this story and the people are going to buy. Let me share with you from research that we have conducted in other markets lately, more than 35% of the buyers prepare shopping lists before they buy during this season. Let me surprise you, the Chinese are not staying out the picture, a couple of years ago we started to see a new event, which became much bigger than Black Friday and Cyber Monday together, which is called the Singles Day sale on 11 November. This started in China and this became a big event and every year we see more and more people are leveraging this event to find cheaper items from China. So November is the holiday season for all the shopping, so be prepared and make a list of the items you want to buy from which merchant and be ready for that because if you are talking about reducing the cost of living, the internet is a great platform for that and especially during this season you can see massive discounts of over 50%, sometimes 70%. You need to be careful, you need to follow the rules of how to buy online but the prices are amazing and I welcome you and encourage you to take part in that this year.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Give us more of those tips because definitely as South African shoppers we can benefit from those overseas bargains without queuing and taking flights overseas.EFI DAHAN: Basically, as I said, use your common sense, although this time you will see a massive discount but the price is one part of the story. Ask your friend, check about the website, check about the merchant, check about the return policy, the shipping policy, check about the cost of returns, check about the payment option. Try to avoid sharing your financial information with small merchants, a lot of Chinese merchants that you don t know, they may be good but they may also not be good for you, be careful. But if you follow the guidelines and you do it step by step you will enjoy the benefits of this shopping month of November.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Lastly, entrepreneurs wanting to expand their market outside of South Africa, great opportunities for them, tell us more about that.EFI DAHAN: It s a great opportunity these days to use the internet, to use PayPal to offer services abroad. We have a lot of examples of websites that can help small businesses, marketplaces for services of freelancers, Elance, oDesk, Fiverr, you can sell abroad. You can take your business professionally, you can build your business carefully, step by step, PayPal can help you to share with you the best practices, help you with the payment but you need to take care of all of those pieces of the puzzle. It s a big business, small details but you need to make sure that from A to Z everything is in the right place before you spend your money on marketing. It s not easy, it s a dream but you have to be very careful and professional and take your business seriously.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Great advice, we ll leave it there. Efi Dahan, PayPal general manager for Africa and Israel. That s how we come to the end of this seven-week smart e-commerce series with PayPal here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000. Remember to listen to all seven podcasts, plus extra information and advice on the Moneyweb website.&nbsp;