SIKI MGABADELI: We focus now on choosing the right medical aid. This is usually a good time to look at your medical aid cover, to make sure that you are not only adequately covered, but that you also are paying the right amount.We are joined now by Barry Rykaart, who is Cape Town regional manager at Curemed. Barry, thanks so much for your time today. I suppose a lot of people at this time of the year are re-looking their policies, re-looking what they are paying for what, and what sort of adequate cover they have. Do you find that your clients start to re-look what they have in terms of medical cover?BARRY RYKAART: Most definitely. Thanks for having me. At this point in the year we see an exceptional increase in the public revisiting and re-looking at medical aids, especially because it&#8217;s becoming so expensive in recent years. It definitely has a lot of value to do things like that.Remember, one thing as well is that when the revision time comes, it&#8217;s very important for each medical-aid member to make sure that the type of benefits that he s had for the calendar year that s passed remains the same for the next year. You won&#8217;t have exactly the same benefits that you had.So it&#8217;s very important to always re-look what you have, make double sure you ve got exactly the same benefits or find out what changes have taken place.SIKI MGABADELI: Just explain to us why that would happen.BARRY RYKAART: Well, to start with, understand that when any changes are made within any medical aid option, that s done for valid reasons due to the current portfolio of clientele on that particular option, depending on the claim ratio that has taken place, and obviously the planning of what the potential plan should be for the years coming.Remember that a scheme always has to work on numbers, on what the potential cost of specialists or hospitals will be for the coming financial year. Due to that you might see that there s a difference in changes or co-payments suddenly becoming part of the benefit structure, or even certain benefits being left out that might have had for this financial year, but that might not be there the next year.SIKI MGABADELI: So Barry, at this time of the year we all know that consumers are under a lot of pressure. They are probably trying to cut back in many areas. What are the things that they need to think about as they are trying to save on costs and fees?BARRY RYKAART: Yes, definitely, if there is a question of cutting down, the majority try to cut costs. But that has its repercussions. What I always tell my clients is certainly always take responsibility for your current health status and your claim ratios. By cutting down your benefits you could not only have fewer out-of-hospital benefits, but there is a decrease in your high-risk benefits as well, such as the amount of cover you might receive for cancer or more serious types of treatment. And you might even find that certain types of procedures are excluded from benefits.So it&#8217;s very important that you not only look at the price, but actually to go into detail and read through your hospital high-risk benefit structures and try and pinpoint where you start losing these type of benefits.You might also see that certain co-payments are also more recurrent on different types of procedures.SIKI MGABADELI: Absolutely right. We&#8217;ll have to leave it there. Thanks for your time today. Barry Rykaart is Cape Town regional manager at Curemed.&nbsp;