Sibanye&#8217;s $2.2 billion (R30.3 billion) all-cash offer for Stillwater Mining, announced on Friday, came out of left field for the self-described South African mining champion .As Sibanye s share price collapsed in response to the news on Friday (see graph), the price being offered for Stillwater became larger than Sibanye s own market capitalisation. And unlike the patient and shrewd deal-making that characterised the acquisition of Rustenburg and Aquarius, this, at first glance, seemed to be a knee-jerk reaction to the precipitous decline in the political environment over the past year that Sibanye is wholly exposed to in South Africa. Sibanye intraday share price, Friday 9 December Source: IRESSSibanye s share price closed at R28.35 a share on Thursday. Following the announcement that was prior to the market opening on Friday, the share opened lower at R26 a share before falling as low as R23.12 (-18.4%). It rallied somewhat to close at R24.01 a share, 15.3% lower than Thursday s close. In response to this assertion, Sibanye CEO Neal Froneman said: No, definitely not. We have been looking for value-accretive deals offshore, and certainly in the case of gold, we were not able to find any on the African continent post-Brexit. So we have never said no to offshore acquisitions. But because of the political environment we find ourselves in, we trade at a substantial discount to our peers. So we can do one of two things to correct this. We can change the political situation here, which we have limited ability to do, or, you improve your exposure through high quality assets in the rest of the world. And there is only one other place where you can buy PGM [platinum group metal] assets, and that s in the US. Froneman said this announcement was the culmination of a process that started as far back as March, and the adverse move in the share price seen on Friday was something they expected, given the company would look to do a rights offer equivalent to some $750 million (R10.3 billion based on current exchange rates) to help finance the deal. Well of course, as soon as you talk a rights offer, everyone starts to determine what the discount is going to be, said Froneman in response to the share price movement. Granted, the size of the discount will be weighing on the minds of investors. But where the acquisitions of Rustenburg and Aquarius had a plan (the consolidation of operations possible by buying both) and fitted in to the sweet spot of Sibanye s DNA (tabular hard rock, deep-level, labour-intensive mining in a jurisdiction the company is extremely familiar with) the acquisition of Stillwater appears to have no such plan, or advantages. By contrast, Stillwater has operations that are highly mechanised and in a jurisdiction that is stable, but mostly unfamiliar to Sibanye s management team. (Neal Froneman is the exception.) Many a South African corporate has run aground in the US. The offer price of $18 a share represents a 23% premium to the company s closing price on Thursday. It appears, Stillwater will be a stand-alone leg of Sibanye s operations, with very little scope to be improved on by its new owner (should all approvals be given). So Sibanye is essentially paying the premium to obtain control of an asset for which it can provide very little value enhancing input towards, and it s a bet the farm move, as alluded to earlier. On the upside though, Stillwater s operations are integrated (mine-to-mill), low cost, cash-generative and long-life. A quality asset in other words. Sibanye did also point out that the deal will in no way jeopardise the group s current dividend, and it expects the deal to be value-accretive from the start. 