Shares in JSE-listed technology group Altron surged 16.42% on Tuesday on the back of an announcement that the company has reached an in-principle agreement with a new strategic partner. The deal will see the company become independently managed after 51 years of Venter family control.The proposed arrangement will see investment firm Value Capital Partners (VCP) inject R400 million into the company through a subscription for shares. That amount represents more than half of Altron&#8217;s current market capitalisation of R791.5 million. This will accelerate Altron s growth initiatives in its core IT operations and furthermore align the interests of VCP with those of other Altron shareholders, Altron noted in a statement.The new shares that will be issued to VCP will see it taking an interest of around 15% in the company. VCP co-founders Antony Ball and Sam Sithole, who previously held the positions of CEO and CFO at Brait, will also take positions on Altron&#8217;s board as non-executive directors.As part of the transaction, the Venter family will also have their voting rights diluted. Currently the family exercises 57% of Altron&#8217;s voting rights through various controlled entities. While the family will remain invested in the company, it is anticipated that their voting rights will fall to 25.1%, provided that they continue to hold at least 10% of the company&#8217;s ordinary shares.In the announcement, Altron noted that the deal has the in-principle support of shareholders representing 83% of the voting rights in the company. This includes founder and chairman Dr Bill Venter.Altron also announced that Venter will retire as chairman at the end of the current financial year, which will be February 28 2017. He will however assume the title of chairman emiritus and remain as a non-executive director. The board will elect a new independent chairman to start from March 1.The board will also continue to seek a new CEO as replacement for Venter&#8217;s son, Robert, who announced earlier this year that he intends to step down. Robert will also become a non-executive director once a new CEO is appointed.The deal remains subject to regulatory approval, and therefore Altron did not set out a timeline for its implementation.