The South African asset management industry has experienced high growth over the last two decades. Largely this is due to the entrance of a significant number of independent managers that have eroded the traditional control of the banking and insurance giants.Changing regulations have also made it easier for boutique managers to set up funds and compete directly with the established players. These boutiques have added a huge amount of choice that wasn&#8217;t there before.These changes have also attracted new investors to the industry due to the growth opportunities that are presenting themselves. One of those is RMI Investment Managers, which has already invested in a number of boutique managers through its affiliate model.In order to develop a better understanding of the industry, RMI Investment Managers also recently conducted a study that provides an overview of the independent manager landscape. It identified 126 independent asset managers in the country, covering unit trust managers, hedge fund managers and private equity managers, as well as a few others that run alternative mandates.This list included the country&#8217;s two biggest firms, Coronation and Allan Gray, and so wasn&#8217;t limited to what most people would consider boutiques. The study&#8217;s focus was however on independence rather than size. Its starting point was therefore excluding those managers that are bank- or insurance-owned.RMI also chose to exclude multi-managers and financial advisers who have established their own model portfolio unit trusts. The study concentrated only on those companies that manage assets directly themselves.Nearly half of the marketAccording to RMI Investment Managers, these 126 firms manage 47% of the assets under management in the industry. This compares well with other markets. In the US, independent managers manage around 45% of the assets and in the UK the figure is 41%. Already these independent managers have quite a high level of penetration, and we think that will continue, says RMI Investment Managers CEO Chris Meyer. That&#8217;s because these managers are gathering around three quarters of industry inflows. It is however important to understand the contribution made to these numbers by the large independent managers such as Coronation, Allan Gray and Foord. The ten biggest firms manage 76% of all the assets held with independent managers. There is therefore significant concentration at the top. For Meyer, however, this is an opportunity more than a problem. I think this is quite exciting because if you look at the UK, the top ten independent managers there manage 46% of the assets, he explains. So the concentration in South Africa is nearly double that. The area we&#8217;re typically playing in is however below the top 10, so if we can help the industry to create the next generation of boutiques, there is a lot of scope for that generation to increase its penetration. It&#8217;s also worth viewing this in the context of which managers have been receiving the most significant inflows recently. Since the middle of last year, Coronation, Allan Gray and Foord have been receiving a lot less new money than second and third tier managers.Independents vs restSource: AsisaNote: Independent managers include Allan Gray, Foord, Coronation, Prudential, Truffle, Rezco, Prescient, 36One, Visio etc. Smaller boutiques have been the ones to gather bulk of flows over the past nine months, says Meyer. We&#8217;re hopeful that this is an indication of an interesting trend where asset allocators are looking for choice. PerformanceIncreasingly it seems that investors are appreciating what boutique managers can offer. Being smaller makes these firms more focused and nimble as they have a single investment team able to make quick decisions.Perhaps even more importantly, however, is that the investment managers themselves have &#8216;skin in the game&#8217;.The study found that for 69% of these independent managers, the investment team had a shareholding in the business of more than 50%. This means that their interests are very closely aligned with those of their clients. If I were looking to give money to an asset manager, this would be key for me, says Meyer. Globally, manager ownership is a stand out reason for what makes independent boutiques different. Independent studies by Morningstar have found that there is a strong correlation between manager ownership and fund success. Fund managers who are major shareholders in the companies they work are more likely to outperform. There is evidence of this in South Africa too. On average, RMI Investment Managers found that independent managers running multi-asset portfolios have outperformed bank- or insurance-owned managers by around 2% per annum over one-, three- and five-year periods. Meyer acknowledges that using an average is very simplistic and that they need to do more work to determine whether these returns are being generated by just a handful of really good managers, or if they are apparent across the board, but he argues that it is nevertheless meaningful. We think independent boutiques are better placed to generate returns for clients, he says. They are more focused because of their size, and more nimble, but they also have skin in the game and that is a big reason why they have better business models than bank- and insurance-owned managers. 