Talks are underway to combine the African retail operations of Steinhoff and Shoprite, creating a retail giant that turns over R200 billion a year and earns R15 billion, from 18 stand-alone brands.The market, which has been expecting news of such a deal, was not initially enthused and Shoprite&#8217;s share price dropped by 12.72% to R180.08, while Steinhoff&#8217;s fell 5.18% to R70.80.In terms of the proposal, Shoprite will acquire Steinhoff s African retail operations in an all-share deal at a price that is yet to be agreed upon. This includes Pep, Ackermans, Speciality Group which includes Shoe City, John Craig Refinery and Dunns; JD Group, including Russells, Bradlows, Rochester, Incredible Connection, Hi-fi Corporation, Sleepmasters and financial services; as well as Steinbuild, which includes Buco, Pennypinchers, Timbercity and Hardware Warehouse; and Tekkie Town.Following the transaction Steinhoff will own a significant equity interest in Shoprite.The value for Steinhoff Africa Retail is yet to be determined.The combined businesses should position Retail Africa as the leading multi-format discount retailer on the continent employing 186 000 people.The idea of creating an African retail champion has been a long-held ambition of Christo Wiese, who holds the majority stake in Shoprite. In 2006, Brait (which owned Pepkor at the time) made an offer to Shoprite shareholders at R26/share. However, minority shareholders wanted R29/ share and so Shoprite remained listed.In a recent Investec research note, readers were reminded that as far back as 2009, Finance Week published a series of articles alleging that Steinhoff was in discussions with a view to acquiring Shoprite. However, no formal offer was tabled.While the boards of Steinhoff and Shoprite have yet to recommend the deal to shareholders, it would appear the deal is a sure thing. According to Investec research, Dr Wiese owns an effective 50.9% of Shoprite s voting rights (or 46% if treasury shares are included). That s because through Thibault Square Financial Services, he owns 291.8 million non-convertible, non-participating no par value deferred shares. These unlisted shares have the same voting rights as ordinary shares. As a result, he controls 35% of Shoprite s voting rights through this structure. In addition, he owns an additional 91.25 million ordinary shares (as at June 30 2016). This amounts to 15.9% of Shoprite s ordinary shares if treasury shares are excluded.Wiese, who also holds a 23.10% stake in Steinhoff, has secured the backing of the Public Investment Corporation, which holds 11.05% of Shoprite and 8.48% of Steinhoff.&#8220;What this deal confirms is that Steinhoff has definite strategic ambitions to become a global diversified retail conglomerate operating as an investment holding company, with interests in many corners of the world,&#8221; says Patrick Ntshalintshali, portfolio manager at Perpetua Investment Managers. &#8220;This won&#8217;t conclude with this transaction. I imagine the company will continue looking for more sizeable acquisitions beyond current geographies.&#8221; The new company will be listed separately. This will provide undiluted access to high growth African markets and may appeal to European investors who have not yet shown much appetite for Steinhoff, despite the Luxembourg listing, says Reuben Beelders, portfolio manager at Gryphon Asset Management. &#8220;It will also provide Steinhoff management with interesting restructuring opportunities down the line.&#8221; As part of the deal Steinhoff has entered into an in principle agreement with the PIC and Titan to acquire their interests in Shoprite as part of the proposed transaction in the form of a Steinhoff share-for-Shoprite share exchange, subject to an exchange ratio to be agreed. This may result in Steinhoff acquiring control of Retail Africa.As a result Steinhoff may be required to extend a mandatory offer to other Shoprite shareholders to acquire their Shoprite ordinary shares. If this is the case, the offer will be on the same terms and shareholders will have the right to retain their exposure to listed Retail Africa directly or be free to choose to accept the offer, should it be made. On the face of it this looks like a good deal, says Sasfin portfolio manager, Paulo de Almeida. The deal allows Steinhoff to reorganise its structure in a way that investors may approve of.&#8220;Also investors will be interested in the value that can be unlocked. For instance Shoprite s distribution system is formidable and leveraging this could lead to savings and margin enhancement. An example is JD Group procurement and distribution which could be run over the system.&#8221;While the two companies do not believe the deal will dilute earnings per share, De Almeida does not believe dilution (if it happened) would be a deal breaker. This is a low growth environment in which nothing happens. The way to get growth is to create it yourself. For instance, he says, Steinhoff acquired Mattress Firm, a heavily over-leveraged US company and immediately replaced the expensive debt with cheaper financing. Steinhoff is now integrating it into its own procurement networks, with the goal being cost reductions and earnings increases. However while it makes sense for Pepkor and Shoprite to merge for scale, reach and synergies, Ntshalintshali questions whether all the other businesses (ranging from Russels to Incredible Connection to Pennypinchers) share the same genetic make-up and strategic intent. Further details, which are yet to be released, may answer some of these questions.