Oil held gains near the highest level since July 2015 as the market focus shifted to U.S. stockpile and production data after OPEC and other nations agreed to coordinated output cuts.Futures added 0.5 percent in New York after climbing 2.6 percent Monday as Saudi Arabia signaled it s prepared to cut more than initially agreed and 11 non-OPEC producers also committed to a reduction. That prompted the International Energy Agency to predict global oil markets will swing into deficit in the first half of 2017. In the U.S., crude stockpiles probably fell last week, a Bloomberg survey showed.Oil has risen more than 17 percent since the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed Nov. 30 to trim output for the first time in eight years. The subsequent deal reached last weekend with non-members encompasses countries that produce about 60 percent of the world s crude. The price rally has led to predictions of a production revival in the U.S., where shale output from seven fields may increase next month, a report showed. The market has to take a lot on faith while waiting for the supply estimates to emerge for December and January, said Harry Tchilinguirian, head of commodity markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London. Sentiment is going to be pivotal in holding the oil price up. West Texas Intermediate for January delivery rose 28 cents to $53.11 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 11:14 a.m. London time. Prices climbed $1.33 to close at $52.83 on Monday, capping a 6.2 percent gain over three sessions. Total volume traded Tuesday was about 21 percent above the 100-day average.Brent for February settlement increased 34 cents to $56.03 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, trading at a $1.96 premium to WTI for the same month. The global benchmark crude advanced $1.36 to $55.69 on Monday, the highest close since July 2015.U.S. crude inventories probably shrank by 1.5 million barrels last week for a fourth straight decline, according to the Bloomberg survey before an Energy Information Administration report on Wednesday. Supplies remain at the highest seasonal level in weekly data compiled by the EIA since 1982.Global oil stockpiles will drop by about 600,000 barrels a day in the next six months as curbs by OPEC and its partners take effect, according to the IEA, which had previously assumed inventories wouldn t decline until the end of 2017. Russia, the biggest producer outside OPEC to join the deal, will gradually implement the full reduction it promised, the IEA said Tuesday.Oil-market news:Saudi Arabia is largely sparing Asia from cuts in crude sales amid the threat of more U.S. and European supply entering the market. Chinese crude output in November climbed to the highest level in four months, while refining reached a record, according to Bloomberg calculations based on data from the National Bureau of Statistics. 2016 Bloomberg L.P