JOHANNESBURG Today marks the one-year anniversary of Nenegate 9/12.During the year, the local market has experienced a number of slumps, often following an event that put markets on edge. Remember Brexit? And while these pullbacks may offer an opportunity to buy assets at a more reasonable price, the behavioural bias is often to cut your losses and wait on the sidelines for things to improve.Volatility must not be feared. It needs to be expected, says Gareth Johnson, head of retail business at Investment Solutions. The graph below depicts the ups and downs in the quarterly returns of the S&amp;P 500 index over a 40-year period.Sources: Hartford Funds, Morningstar &amp; Investment SolutionsJohnson says when markets fall investors are naturally inclined to become risk averse and to argue that cash is a safer asset class.But looking at quarterly returns is a short-term strategy that clouds an investor s vision regarding the long-term portfolio objective.Investors are looking for what is referred to as the CPR of investments a consistent positive return. The average annual return of the S&amp;P 500 over the 40-year period was 11.35%. The problem is as you can see it doesn t come in a straight line and this is what gets people a little bit worked up. The graph below is also a depiction of the S&amp;P 500 over the same 40-year period, but shows how an investment of $10 000 would have grown to around $740 000 over the long term.Sources: Hartford Funds, Thomson Reuters &amp; Investment Solutions Johnson says a lot of times especially in the case of retirees who have a lot of time to read and watch the news investors go online and check their portfolio value on a daily basis. This approach invites an enormous amount of stress into investors&#8217; lives and because of that, they often feel that they should do something when their portfolio value drops.That is the exact strategy investors should guard against and is why a good financial adviser can be invaluable to take the emotion out of the situation and hold an investor s hand through the process, he says.If a hypothetical opportunistic investor invested $10 000 over the 40-year period and added $2 000 to the investment each time the S&amp;P 500 dropped by 8% or more during one month, the investor would have had around $1.1 million at the end of the period. An apprehensive investor that took $2 000 out and placed it into US government bonds each time this happened would have had roughly $400 000 by December 2015. While it goes against every piece of an investor s natural reaction to stay in the market when it is falling, going into cash is the worst thing investors can do, Johnson says.For long-term investors, even retirees, there is also another important reason why cash is not as safe as it is perceived to be. While it is a less volatile asset class than equities, inflation risk is also important to consider. Johnson says while getting a 7% or 8% return from a Money Market unit trust may comfort investors into thinking their money is safe , inflation should be taken into account. Longevity risk is also increasingly becoming an issue for retirees.The graph below shows the average annual local after-inflation returns of the four main asset classes between 2004 and 2016.Source: Investment Solutions Based on these inflation-adjusted rates it would take an investor 74 years to double her money in a cash investment and seven years in an equity investment.Johnson says even a 65-year-old retiree still has a long investment horizon and should have a high exposure to equity and property.But trying to time the market or pick winning asset classes or managers is a mug s game.Sticking to a long-term strategy by investing with a couple of good managers in a balanced fund will do the trick. The concept sounds boring, but that is what your investment should be about, he says.