You ll recognise the plight of the unemployed, as alarmingly displayed by the many faces of men standing outside building supply stores with their tools hoping to catch a break from builders. Or the unemployed young men and women in townships and villages who have given up attempting to look for work. You ll agree, when I say it is a tragedy of historical proportions.You ll also agree that it has been a remarkably quiet year for trade unions. Even the much-feared Amcu settled wage negotiations in the platinum sector with relative ease. In fact, were it not for the horror of still-trapped Lily mineworkers, this year would have gone down as an anomaly in a country that is known for its vibrant trade unions.All that changed in the space of the four weeks of November. Possibly, brought forward by these events:And above all, the politics of the ruling alliance are at their most intense, toxic and divided in the lead up to the ANC s 2017 elective Congress.There is, however, a lingering question at the back of my mind: What has the left done in the past five years to advance the interest of the working class? Particularly those who claim to be the progressive left in the ruling alliance.In his instructive Capital In the Twenty First Century, Thomas Picketty provides great arguments on why inequality increases in the world. If trade unions were evaluated using that report, they would have failed. Especially when statistics show that inequality and poverty in South Africa continue to increase instead of decline. Just like the men and women leading this country, union leaders have failed to respond to the challenges faced by workers who are feeling the brunt of an economy that s in crisis. Unionised workers throughout the country are straining from the financial burden of trying to survive.In the past five years, what have unions done to better the lives of the workers they claim to represent? What significant victory have they won recently at labour policymaking level? Even the essential national minimum wage recommendation rings hollow, for it came bearing a heavy price that will see unions being required to ballot their members before going on strike.A development perceived by many workers as betrayal (after all, workers were represented by their federations who were part of the NEDLAC processes in formulating NMW policy and recommendations) and regression given the right to strike is enshrined in the constitution. When tabling the report, the deputy president said there were broad agreements between the stakeholders involved on balloting to strike.Later this month, the Employment Tax Incentive (ETI) introduced in January 2014 as part of a package of programmes to address the social and economic problem of youth unemployment will come to an end.Again, another missed opportunity because in outright rejecting ETI unions alienated themselves from young black graduates who could have swelled their ranks. There is something excruciating about the sight of an organisation that was once vibrant, relevant and the pulse of the working class that is now reduced to a reactionary, uncertain, ill prepared and mumbling in the background ghost of former self.The consequence was a Cosatu plagued by sharp polarisation, combined with distrust and fear, between public and private sector unions. As well as the social distance between elected leaders and their members, money making through union investment arms became a priority. With that came the rise in patronage, the huge cost of buying support in order to keep the political privileges that come with being a leader in what are now business unions.An often missed but key reason why unions have been failing is how leadership is often reserved for the old. When push comes to shove who, despite bitter political, ideological and leadership difference, will group together to defend and preserve their status from the menace of youth in a hurry to take over?To get organised labour out of this coma will mean a re-examination of its strategies if it does not want to look on helplessly as the individual trade union slides further into irremediable decline.It is a safe enough bet that the four points at the onset of this article will feature regularly in the 2017 political agenda. If unions want to regain health and relevance in the foreseeable future they must do away with the fear of trying the remedy. Union leaders are thoroughly frightened of the idea of structural reform, yet their lifeline might just be found there.