Cape Town-based company, Agri Apps, is one of 100 early-stage startups from all over the world who is pitching for a 500 000 euro prize at the annual Slush 100 Pitching Competition in Helsinki, Finland.Agri Apps builds internet-based software and hardware products to help farmers improve their profitability.Its co-founder, Attie Lotz, joins me now. Attie, how did the idea for Agri Apps come about?Attie Lotz: Hi Ing . I think to answer that question I first need to talk about how we started, how we joined forces my partners and me. So myself and Justin [Zondagh] studied MBA together where we realised our shared passion to pursue our childhood dream, which was always farming. I come from a management consulting background. He is a software engineer. So heading into the world of agriculture, how do we take advantage of the skills that we have to make a difference in agriculture? And we thought analytics would be the best way to go about this. The problem we found is that the data isn t relevant. If it is available, it is not great at all and digging into that problem of why can t we get the data, we found that it is due to the telemetry in agriculture getting the information from the ground on the farm all the way into the palm of your hand is prohibitively expensive and proprietary. So this is the problem that we target now.Ing Lamprecht: Your products help farmers to improve their profitability. Practically, how do you do that?Attie Lotz: So they are the end-user who experiences our solution. However they are not our direct customers. So we work with agri-services companies, experts in soil, experts in disease modelling. So they integrate our system. We give a cost effective solution. We give a solution that integrates data, cloud services and a dashboard for mobile or PC use which then brings the cost down, which makes it easier for people who are soil experts to then do the analysis of the soils for farming. For instance I m using the soil example. Disease modelling. In South Africa disease modelling I mean for the Western Cape most of it is done in Stellenbosch and then they just aggregate it out to other places and these things are very specific. They need it per valley. They need it per specific area. So our goal is to enable the other players in the service industry to farmers to do their job better, easier and cheaper.Ing Lamprecht: Agri Apps is the only South African finalist in the Slush 100 Pitching Competition this year. How does a Cape Town-based start-up get the attention of international investors?Attie Lotz: How to get their attention? I spent the whole week trying to understand the European market or investors better. My background has always been in emerging markets. Their appetite for the African risk isn t really there, but it is good that they are starting to understand that there are really good ideas coming from South Africa, from African countries. There are a couple of African start-ups here. So it is a start. To offshore? I don t know. We are not specifically looking for investment right now.Ing Lamprecht: What was your first a-ha moment? When did you realise but this could be a profitable business?Attie Lotz: First a-ha when people from New Zealand and Lebanon and where was it France we started getting e-mails from people from everywhere and when we realised that this isn t a little Western Cape problem. This problem goes much bigger and there is a much larger market for us to go and play in.Ing Lamprecht: One entrepreneur jokingly said the life of a start-up owner basically sucks 98% of the time. Is it really that tough out there?Attie Lotz: I ve never worked this hard, never been this poor and I ve never been this happy.Ing Lamprecht: What opportunities have you identified for expansion, potentially?Attie Lotz: Mostly other third world nations. There is surprisingly enough a lot of Lebanese interest. They can make good use of our products. Israel themselves make very good sensing solutions and they ve also got the expensive telemetry problem.Ing Lamprecht: What advice do you have for other South African start-ups?Attie Lotz: Dream bigger. Just dream bigger than anybody else. When people say dream big, go above that. We have the potential. We have the energy. We have the know-how. We understand problems (from my experience) much deeper than people from developed nations.Ing Lamprecht: Thanks Attie. That was co-founder of Agri Apps, Attie Lotz.