Steinhoff International Holdings and Shoprite Holdings said they are in talks to combine their African retail businesses, creating the continent s biggest merchant in a deal spearheaded by billionaire Christo Wiese.Under the two-pronged proposal, Shoprite would acquire Steinhoff s African retail operations in return for new shares, giving the latter a significant equity interest and possible control of the enlarged business, the companies said in a statement Wednesday. The news met with a frosty reception from investors and shares of both companies fell sharply. There are clear risks around valuation of assets that remain unknown at this stage, Graham Renwick, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in a note.A union with Shoprite would continue a dealmaking spree that s taken Steinhoff across the UK, Europe and the US Talks between the companies were initiated and facilitated by their two biggest shareholders &#8212; Wiese and South Africa s state-owned Public Investment Corporation, which manages state pensions, the retailers said. Wiese, South Africa s third-richest person with a net worth of $6.3 billion, owns about 16% of Shoprite and 18% of Steinhoff. This is Christo Wiese looking to organise assets, and having Shoprite and Steinhoff assets in one entity in Africa is plus, said Sasha Naryshkine, an analyst at Johannesburg-based money manager Vestact. This will be one of the biggest, if not the biggest, retail companies in Africa, with fingers in lots of pies. Retail AfricaThe combined businesses would be called Retail Africa, and would bring together Steinhoff-owned chains such as Pep and Ackermans with Shoprite and Checkers supermarkets. The enlarged business would have annual revenue of about R200 billion ($14.6 billion) and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of about R15 billion.Steinhoff, whose recent takeovers include U.K. discount chain Poundland and US retailer Mattress Firm Holding Corporation, has also agreed in principle to acquire the stakes in Shoprite held by PIC and a company controlled by Wiese s family trust. That would be done through a share exchange, the companies said. The way the transaction seems to be structured would potentially give Steinhoff control of Shoprite without it paying a takeover premium for the company, said Charles Allen, an analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence.It s likely that Steinhoff will be required to make an offer to buy out minority shareholders under South African securities regulations, Exane s Renwick said. The companies still need to answer key questions regarding the valuation of Steinhoff s African assets and the enlarged Retail Africa business, he said.Shares SlideSteinhoff shares slid as much as 8.1% in Frankfurt, where the company moved its main listing last year. Shoprite fell as much as 7.3% in Johannesburg.The announcement comes just one month after Shoprite s founder and longtime CEO, Whitey Basson, said he would retire, leading Wiese to say the retailer was at a crossroads. The proposed transaction will likely raise some eyebrows, Exane s Renwick said. The ultimate entity could see the African and European valuations crystallised, and a simpler business emerge. However, there are clearly some headwinds and noise to navigate before that comes to be the case. 2016 Bloomberg