As Steinhoff International and Shoprite tiptoe towards combining their African retail assets (effectively merging Pepkor, JD Group and Steinbuild into Shoprite), there remain three very odd fits in what has rapidly become a retailer focused on Europe, the US and Australasia.The first is the motor retail and rental business, Unitrans Automotive. It operates 91 dealerships in Southern Africa as well as 50 branches of the Hertz car rental franchise. It is such a tiny part of Steinhoff s business that, even without recent acquisition Mattress Firm, it comprises just 8.8% of revenue and 2.6% of group profit (with Mattress Firm and Poundland, the automotive unit drops to closer to 6%). Operating margins are at the 3% level, about a third of the general merchandise business and a quarter of the household goods one. It does not even crack a listing on the cover of Steinhoff s annual report, which details the categories it operates in.Take nothing away from the underlying quality of this operation. It is a fantastic business and very well run. However, it is a drag on group earnings and margins and simply doesn t fit in anymore. And it is specifically excluded from the Retail Africa plan because it doesn t make sense there either (I d argue neither does Steinbuild, but that s for another day ).The other two parts of the sprawling Steinhoff empire that no longer quite fit in as the group continues to internationalise and operate at a far greater scale are associate companies. Both are equity accounted.Steinhoff holds a 25.7% stake in PSG Group, thereby obtaining long-term exposure to the underlying investments held in PSG . It bought the stake in December 2011 from entities associated with Christo Wiese, Markus Jooste and Thembeka Capital (prior to its unwinding) in what one could argue was a bit of housekeeping . At one point, it seemed there was some method behind the madness but Steinhoff s strategy has pivoted dramatically from what it was engineering in 2011/2012. Fast-forward to a potential implementation of the Retail Africa transaction, and suddenly any synergies with PSG Group companies (primarily Capitec Bank and Curro) look doubtful.Steinhoff held 27% of the group as at June 30 2015, which suggests it did not follow (all?) its rights in the last 2015 bookbuild undertaken by PSG. PSG s market capitalisation is currently around R47 billion, meaning Steinhoff s stake is worth approximately R12 billion. (Steinhoff valued the associate investment at 749 million as at September 30).The other unit which, arguably, makes even less sense (given its size) is KAP Industrial, in which Steinhoff owns a 43% stake. In 2012, Steinhoff reversed its industrial assets, notably PG Bison and Unitrans (the logistics and passenger units), into KAP in exchange for the stake.Those Unitrans businesses are about half of KAP group revenue, with 17% from PG Bison, a similar amount from two chemical units and the remainder split between automotive components businesses and mattress manufacturing. As of late December, KAP s market capitalisation is just under R20 billion, valuing Steinhoff s stake at R8.5 billion. (In its annual report, as at September 30, Steinhoff valued the holding at 315 million).One must note the historical and personal significance of each of these businesses to Steinhoff (and especially to Markus Jooste and Christo Wiese).PSG chairman Jannie Mouton and Jooste s business relationship and friendship dates back well over 20 years. It is well-known that Jooste invested in PSG from the outset, following Mouton s firing from SMK. The two have continued to do business together and have served on each other s boards. While Jooste remains a non-executive on the PSG Group board (with Steinhoff CFO Ben La Grange as his alternate), Mouton retired from the Steinhoff board on May 30 2016.KAP was established as the holding company for manufacturing assets by Claas Daun, who remains on Steinhoff s board.Investments in equity accounted companies totaled 1.744 billion as at September 30 2016, equal to 5% of Steinhoff s total assets. This is a not-insignificant amount, and executives as well as shareholders would surely be wondering whether this is the best use for the group s cash and whether Unitrans Auto warrants the distraction (however small).* Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at [email&#160;protected]* He holds shares in Steinhoff, first acquired in September 2010.