Last Friday, the government tabled a new discussion document on the social security reform at Nedlac. The document outlines how it wants to achieve universal pension fund coverage by implementing compulsory contributions to a centrally managed public fund the National Social Security Fund (NSSF).The idea is not new, as a public pension fund was first proposed in 2012. However, there now seems to be new impetus to the idea, and if it is implemented there could be major implications for the local financial services industry. We need to find a solution to providing comprehensive social security in South Africa, says 27Four&#8217;s Wayne Hiller van Rensburg. And this paper acknowledges that it&#8217;s not only the state that has to play a role, but also asset managers and other financial services providers. The document makes it clear that private vehicles such as pension and provident funds or retirement annuities (RAs) will remain important, but that some things will have to change. I think broadly the contents of the discussion document are net positive for the savings industry, says Thabo Khojane, the MD of Investec Asset Management. But there will be transition costs for some parts of the value chain. He explains that there are three components in the pension fund value chain, starting with the current pension funds themselves. Here he expects massive consolidation. The majority of South Africa&#8217;s 3 000-odd funds are sub-scale and he estimates that only around 300 of them would survive the introduction of the NSSF.To reduce some of this disruption, Stanlib&#8217;s chief economist Kevin Lings suggests that the government could consider creating exceptions for private funds that already meet the requirements of the NSSF. This would allow them to continue to collect contributions from members who would then be exempt from making the compulsory contribution.However, Khojane believes this is unlikely to happen. I think that government needs for everyone to contribute to the NSSF because in essence they are looking to pool resources, he says. We need to make it affordable for the 2.7 million people currently excluded, and that means that some cross-subsidisation has to happen. The second part of the value chain is the administrators &#8211; currently the four big life insurers and Alexander Forbes. Because the NSSF is going to capture the first part of everyone&#8217;s contribution, that basically means that for the low income worker the NSSF contribution will be the only contribution they ever make, he explains. So for the administrators, that part of their business will eventually disappear. The third part of the value chain is the asset managers, and in Khojane&#8217;s estimation they are likely to see the biggest benefits. If you take the combination of the additional 2.7 million people that government wants to bring into the net together with the intention to make preservation the default, there will be a much larger savings pool for asset managers to manage, he explains.However, asset managers will have to adjust on two fronts. The first is that government is intent on phasing out any form of exit penalties, which will necessarily mean the end of guaranteed products or smoothed bonus products that rely on them. Secondly, government is likely to limit performance fees to alternative assets such as infrastructure and private equity.Although the document doesn&#8217;t explicitly say as much, it is likely that the assets in the NSSF will be managed by the Public Investment Corporation (PIC). The paper does say that private sector fund managers will be contracted to handle some of the investments, although it doesn&#8217;t say to what extent. Currently the PIC outsources around 25% of its domestic assets and the majority of its offshore investments. The effectiveness of this all depends on how it&#8217;s done, argues Lings. It would make sound investment sense for the PIC to outsource most of the fund management, because there would be a huge risk around the management of a such massive pool of funds by a single entity. The PIC is already the largest asset manager in the country and if it took on an additional large pool of funds, the concentration risk would be huge. Whatever the PIC did would then effect be the market, Lings explains. And I don&#8217;t think that&#8217;s healthy for anybody. What gives the market liquidity and depth is different opinions and philosophies. I also don&#8217;t believe that the PIC would want to lose that because if it did it would struggle to exit any investment position as it would be almost impossible to find anyone on the other side of the trade. Khojane argues that liquidity and concentration are already issues for the PIC. It wants to have a diversified portfolio, and so will continue to outsource some components. Increasingly what you&#8217;re seeing from the PIC is greater use of offshore, and most of that is outsourced, he says. In addition, the alternative asset space is something they are quite interested in, whether that&#8217;s infrastructure such as renewable energy, or private equity. Again that will be outsourced, which reduces the pressure that comes from being such a large owner in the listed market. Van Rensburg notes that it&#8217;s also possible that the funds in the NSSF could be freed from pension fund regulation, which would allow for asset managers to explore some interesting possibilities. That is one area where I think there would be opportunities for asset managers and they should fight hard for it, he says. But I also think that they are going to have to stretch their imaginations beyond what they are at the moment. Hopefully the discussion allows them to introduce some form of innovation. 