SIKI MGABADELI: It&#8217;s time for our Tipping Point feature, which is about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are.Today we speak to Eunice Sibiya. I&#8217;m sure you know her. She is regular contributor to the programme. She heads up consumer education at FNB, and she ll take us through her journey.EUNICE SIBIYA: Growing up with a very strict parent, it was always hammered [into me] to say take care of it, do not be wasteful and da da dadida. When I started working I was like: Ha, yippee, here I am. It is mine, all of it!. All of it is mine and I will do with it as I please. And obviously after finding employment I thought, phew, I am working now, ngiyasebenza, I opened clothing accounts. I helped at home because I&#8217;m the eldest home I have five siblings. So it was the big sister kind of thing, like here s money for school fees and don t worry, I ll buy the bread. I used to get paid every Friday or every fortnight I can&#8217;t even remember and coming home with those groceries, like, ja, I&#8217;m responsible, I&#8217;m working. It was nice.But wena, when a month, two months, three months, four came, when I had to pay those clothing accounts, how, who s robbing me? [My mother] looked at me. She was very soft-spoken and said: Mm, mm, I told you so. So pay back that money. And you stop. I had to quickly pay off those accounts. Okay, yes, I&#8217;ve learnt. She said: I needed to let you burn your fingers because when we had the chat after you got the job, I told you one, two, three, four, and you went out like spring chicken and did your own thing. That s fine. Now that you ve gotten the taste and know how cold it is out there, come back, let&#8217;s talk. And the first thing is go and open a saving account. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Ah.EUNICE SIBIYA: So I had two accounts immediately after I started working, and it was like you split the money, your salary comes in and your wages go into that account and quickly you transfer. You are going to get married one day, isn t it? You are going sort our your own wedding expenses. She said: That s how it is, my child. There are four kids that I need to take care of. But this was with humour. She was very funny in the way she said things. You are the one getting married, you must foot the bill. I ll help where I can help. I know she was joking, but it was just planting that seed to say, don t waste anything. You have a long future ahead of you, let s play smart. And from that point on it was okay. So when I get paid, no matter how little it was I remember at some point I think when I started working I got paid R700. It was quite a bit at the time. She said: Make sure that you put away as much as you can. That was the goal, to say as much as I can put away . Ja, I ll have a little bit of from me to me kind of thing, help at home, but as much as I can I&#8217;ll put away. And that has been the discipline.And then you find yourself in the financial education space. How did that happen. The factory that I used to work on went on strike at one point. Ha! Eunice got onto the train to Park Station, got off. All the head offices of every company were here in Johannesburg.TUMISANG NDLOVU: In the CBD.EUNICE SIBIYA: We stayed in Springs at the time. That s where I was born and brought up. I got onto the train, came to Joburg, went to Standard Bank and this other bank and that other bank and Barclays and whatever, and submitted my CVs and went bank home.The strike went on. I was called for an interview, three interviews and, to make a long story short, FNB took me. It was Barclays at the time.I started working. It was a wow moment. I was dizzy so many people talking foreign languages. I didn t even do finance at school, but had strengths in other things and communication, because they were looking for customer service people, and they would have enquiry clerks and everything. So we were trained.But I was dizzy every day. Money so much money! People talking money, customers coming for bank statements, seeing lots of zeroes. I thought, is this how people live out there? Whaaat! We can&#8217;t get this right.But let me tell you, you come from a background that doesn t talk about money. You come from a background that doesn t have money, and you are now seeing a lot of money. You hear money speak.Okay, after a while I felt that this is possible, this is possible. It is attainable, achievable. Let&#8217;s start working towards that. But for me the biggest thing was, after those wow moments and everything, it started paining me to say, now, if God gave me this privilege of being exposed to these things, to this knowledge, okay, what can we do? This little light-skinned girl was the it-thing.And that s how I started talking.SIKI MGABADELI: That s Eunice Sibiya, who is head of consumer education at FNB.