As was widely expected, the US Federal Reserve (Fed) raised the policy rate yesterday by 25 basis points. However, what did surprise the market was that the median projection of the policy rate by individual Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) members, or the so-called dot plot , now points to three more rate hikes in 2017, compared to two hikes foreseen in September, when the members last updated their views. The dot plot also points to three more hikes in each of 2018 and 2019, although these were unchanged from the September update.This is according to Old Mutual Investment Group Chief Economist, Rian Le Roux, who says that the Fed s meeting served to highlight that there are still uncertainties in the outlook for the world economy in 2017, even though the outlook is reasonably constructive. Digging a bit deeper, le Roux says that the Fed s statement and macro forecasts revealed a few other moderately hawkish messages and implications too. Importantly, the Committee described the the stance of monetary policy as accommodative rather than the moderately accommodative Chair Janet Yellen used in her recent Congressional testimony. The statement further noted that this accommodative stance would help achieve some further strengthening in the labour market . The some qualifier, added to the statement from the previous statement, indicates that the Fed believes the US economy is now close to full employment, a typically hawkish indication for a central bank, he points out. Chairperson Yellen also noted that any changes in fiscal policy, referred to as a subject of considerable uncertainty, will be among the key factors that the FOMC will consider as it evolves its economic outlook in 2017. Le Roux says the implication is that if the Trump Administration were to follow through on their election manifesto of significant fiscal stimulus, this could put further upward pressure on US interest rates through 2017 and, especially, 2018. Yet another consideration is that President-elect Trump has to appoint two people to vacancies on the FOMC, which adds more uncertainty for the year ahead, as he is likely to appoint more hawkish leaning people. According to Le Roux, the stronger than expected hawkish tone emanating from the Fed s meeting, not surprisingly, impacted financial markets, with the US dollar, especially, firming and a number of emerging market currencies coming under some downward pressure, including the Rand, which slipped back to over R14 versus the dollar. Still, while the Fed s message was a bit more hawkish than expected, it is no reason for panic , says Le Roux. The Fed s hike, and intention to do more, stems from an improving US economy, a key support to the rest of the world, he says. The outlook for the world economy for 2017 remains reasonably constructive as growth is expected to improve moderately, led by the USA. Such an outcome should also benefit South Africa, given our high reliance on foreign trade as a fundamental driver of economic growth. Rian le Roux is group chief economist at Old Mutual Investment Group 