The implementation of a new loop line on the gas pipeline between the Temane gas field in Mozambique and South Africa&#8217;s Secunda might be delayed, as the public participation process to determine the tariff is postponed until next year.This could cost the owner of the pipeline Rompco, more than R20 million per month, CEO Louis Bosch told Moneyweb, who added: We are very concerned about the delay.&#8221;Rompco is a joint venture between Sasol Gas (50%); iGas (25%) a subsidiary of the Central Energy Fund (CEF) and representative of the South African government; and Companhia Limitada de Gasoduto (CMG) the Mozambican gas utility (25%).Representatives of end-user companies in South Africa (who asked not to be named) told Moneyweb that several of their peers, as well as the Gas Users Group, requested meetings with energy regulator Nersa to get clarity on how the tariff would be implemented, but none have received feedback yet. We don t understand how the tariff would be applied and the Nersa discussion document does not give much clarity, one representative said. This comes as the initial deadline for comment on the Rompco tariff application and Nersa s discussion document passed, on November 25. A public hearing was scheduled for December 2, but Nersa confirmed that it has been postponed until January 25 and the deadline for submission extended.Rompco planned on implementing the 127km-long 26-inch pipeline on January 1. It would add 24 MGJ/annum capacity to the total pipeline, increasing the total capacity to 212MGJ/a.The initial supply to South Africa would be 7.8MGJ/a, with the rest of the capacity not yet allocated.Bosch says Romco s tariff application is not based on the total cost of the pipeline, but on the lower amount it would have cost to build an 18-inch pipeline. He says Rompco is taking the risk on the difference between the capital cost of the loop line as built and the smaller 18-inch pipeline. The difference will only be recovered if the spare capacity is ever utilised in future,&#8221; he says.It has applied for a tariff of R49,87/GJ for the first quarter of next year, after which it would be adjusted quarterly for inflation. It submitted alternatives to Nersa, namely a multi-year tariff approved until 2029 or a three-year tariff.Bosch says the tariff will apply to all end-users of the gas transmitted via the total pipeline and it would drop as more users take up capacity. It is however impossible to estimate when and on which side of the border that would be.The R49.87/GJ compares unfavourably with tariffs applicable to other sections of the pipeline. The proposed tariff is more than three times the current tariff of R13.34/GJ for the existing cross-border pipeline (GTA1) that is much longer, stretching 865km, with a much bigger capacity of 126 million GJ per year. It also compares unfavourably with the current tariff of R12.87/GJ for the compressor station at Komatipoort (GTA2), with an annual capacity of 27 million GJ.Bosch however says the new tariff would impact end users to the tune of only about 2%, calculated on the average gas price charged in Gauteng, including certain discounts. If the discounts are disregarded, the impact could be 3%, he says.If the entire 24MGJ/a of capacity is taken up after three years, the impact would reduce to 0.5%, he says.Gas users are however weary. They say when Nersa switched to maximum price methodology for the determination of the gas price in 2014/15, they were also told the impact would be minimal. Eventually they had to cope with huge increases. A legal challenge to the new methodology recently failed.They say they don t understand how Rompco calculates the impact and fail to see why they would have to pay more if their usage doesn t change. None of us are being offered more gas,&#8221; one said.They say while a 2% increase doesn t sound like much, it is 2% added onto other costs. As a result of the change in Nersa s methodology end users missed out on the benefit of the lower international oil price. The electricity tariff is now a bigger factor in determining the maximum gas price and all indications are that that will keep on rising sharply.They say the actual gas prices charged by Sasol, which supplies them, are still far below the maximum price. This creates a lot of uncertainty, as Sasol could at any time decide to close that gap.Nersa full-time regulator member for piped-gas Nomfundo Maseti told Moneyweb that stakeholders, including customers who will be directly impacted negatively by the increase in Rompco&#8217;s transmission tariff, submitted extensive comments which require thorough and careful analysis. There are issues raised by stakeholders and Nersa which require clarification from Rompco. She said Nersa is required by law to give affected parties an opportunity to participate meaningfully in the decision-making process.Asked about the effect of the delay on Rompco, Maseti said Rompco operates in a regulatory environment and is therefore expected to observe and comply with the relevant Acts. According to Maseti, the provisional process going forward will entail: