During a conference call with analysts this week Steinhoff CEO Markus Jooste would not fuel nor dampen speculation that Steinhoff is eyeing a tie-up of some sort with Shoprite, saying that he cannot comment on possible acquisitions. He was more than happy however, to answer questions on recent acquisitions, Poundland in the UK, Mattress Firm in the US, Fantastic Holdings in Australia and Tekkie Town in South Africa. He also quite categorically stated that the group is not looking at making an acquisition in South America, and never has done.This will probably come as a relief to shareholders who may be wondering about the group s capacity to digest its recent acquisitions. In the last year it has invested more than R70 billion into deals that will expand the company s operations in various international markets. In the year before that it acquired Christo Wiese s Pepkor for R63 billion, Austrian retailer kika-Leiner and collapsing furniture retailer JD Group for R1.2 billion.According to Jooste the group has already successfully introduced best-selling clothing and footwear ranges from Pep Stores into some of the bigger Poundland stores. In those stores density and gross trading margins increased substantially. We are excited about it and I am reasonably relaxed that the value creation plan will be met and we will achieve our targets. Similarly at Mattress Firm, whose sales have only been integrated since October, sales have improved in October and November when compared to July and August. The current forecast is encouraging but that might be that we were lucky on the timing. We are happy that the plans that our local management teams presented to us are well on their way. The restructuring of JD Group continues at a pace with another 84 stores closed in recent months as Steinhoff prepares to capitalise on December trade.Jooste was talking to analysts as the group announced its financial results for the quarter ended September 30 2016. Due to the change in year-end, which was approved at the extraordinary general meeting in May this year, an income statement highlighting the performance of the group for the twelve months ended September 30 2016 was also provided. This will provide the base for future comparisons.With 93% of Steinhoff s revenue generated from retail sales (rather than manufacture), sales momentum is an important indicator of future performance. According to Jooste the group showed good momentum across the board in the last quarter of the fiscal year 2016. Total revenue for the three months increased by 12.1% to 3.4 billion with retail sales improving by 15.6% for the quarter.Almost 61% of group revenue is earned in Europe and the United Kingdom while 32% of revenue is earned in Africa, mostly in South Africa. Adjusted for the impact of currency fluctuations during the quarter, versus that of the comparative quarter, retail sales in constant currency increased by 20.3%.The group reported a 12.5% increase in operating margin to 327 million representing an operating profit margin for the group as a whole of 9.7%. When adjusting for one off restructuring costs, the group increased margin by 21.1% to 352 million, representing an 80 basis point increase in operating margin for the quarter under review.The household goods segment (including Conforama &amp; JD Group) increased sales by 13.6% and operating profit rose by 10.1%. The sales growth in the European business units is encouraging, given that the European summer months are historically a slower period for the household goods business. Sales in Austria and Africa were affected by the repositioning and restructuring initiatives in these markets. Despite the Brexit vote and pound weakness, the bedding and furniture retail business in the United Kingdom performed well. Similarly the Australasian business performed well for the quarter under review, led by the strengthening of the housing market in that region.The general merchandise retail segment (including Pep) improved revenue by 18% to 895 million. Adjusted for currency fluctuations relating mostly to the South African rand, sales grew by 26.3% in constant currency during the quarter. In South Africa, this year marks the 17th consecutive year of double-digit revenue and operating profit growth in that region.When adjusting for currency fluctuations in the rand, revenue in the automotive division was stable compared to the previous quarter. This performance should be evaluated against the performance of the South African motor industry, in particular new vehicle sales, which have declined compared to the previous year.According to Jooste sales momentum in the group is expected to continue for the remainder of the year. In markets where the group has material market share, such as in France and Switzerland sales are expected to equal or slightly outperform the market. In regions such as Germany, Spain, Portugal and eastern Europe, where the group is actively expanding its footprint, market share growth is expected to continue. In the United Kingdom and Australasia, focus remains on increasing market share in all segments of the resilient bedding market. Sales momentum, as measured in constant currency, is expected to continue in the African region.Quarterly results are typically noisy and it&#8217;s usually better to wait for the six month or yearly results, however Reuben Beelders, portfolio manager at Gryphon Asset Management, notes that the group seems to be taking quick steps to integrate the new businesses, reduce debt and take advantage of opportunities for cross selling across the group.He added though that its early days yet. &#8220;Initially the MediClinic acquisitions looked like solid opportunities. Problems only emerged a few months down the line, he says. Certain risks are difficult to quantify for instance Mattress Firm itself is acquisitive, acquiring 40% of its 3 500 stores fairly recently. On the positive side, Steinhoff has not overpaid for Poundland or Mattress Firm, and the low interest rate environment removes some of the risk.Steinhoff also appears to have positioned itself to reap the benefits of the new businesses over the next quarter from October to December during which the group earns 28% of revenue and 34% of operating profit.Like many others on the JSE, Steinhoff&#8217;s share price has tumbled in recent months, arguably to more realistic levels.The company is trading off a price:earnings multiple of 15, which is not too expensive. &#8220;I would be a holder, but a cautious one,&#8221; says Beelders. &#8220;The fall in price from a rather frothy R95 gives shareholders some comfort in the event that there is a bump in the road.&#8221; 