SIKI MGABADELI: It&#8217;s time for our Tipping Point feature, which is about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are.Today we speak to Sindi Zilwa, who is co-founder and CEO of Nkonki. She takes us though her journey.SINDI ZILWA: I started with a vison to make a difference and to make a change, because it was not acceptable that, at the time one qualified you must remember I qualified in 1990 and I was ready to start a fully-fledged career by the end of 1992 at that time the opportunities were more like dished out . I think that s the best way I can say it. It was like people giving you rations or portions of what you can do and where you can be.So that didn t go down well with me. I knew that I must be the master of my own destiny and the only way I could do that was to really be in charge of my own change.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Tell us about how Nkonki came about.SINDI ZILWA: Nkonki came about because, at the time we qualified, there were few [black] charted accountants. In my case I was the second woman to qualify. The problem was that, for other black people who wished to be chartered accountants, to be able to pursue the career they had to be registered for articles in firms that were doing auditing and accounting. At that time the only firms that were doing auditing and accounting were firms that would never open doors to people us.Hence it started more on a basis of why not? It has to be done, otherwise who is going to service black people? Where are the kids who wish to be CAs to get trained, and what else will not happen if we all run away towards our comfort?So basically that s where I really started. There was a purpose to redress the imbalances that were existing in the auditing profession, of which an auditing firm was the major [obstacle] towards that goal.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Any challenges that you have encountered on this journey?SINDI ZILWA: Well, I have pages and pages and pages or books of challenges but even the joys are there. But there were always challenges. I don t even want to mention capital, because everyone knows when you start a business you ll have a problem with that. But I think the most important thin is that being a service business you need a brand credibility, and people need to know that they can count on you, and come for advice on business-related issues.Now, if you are coming from a perceived group of people what are not known to be anything other than domestic workers or specialists, how can you even think you can start to advise people on how to start their businesses, how to keep their books? So I think it was the lack of brand credibility and brand trust, not only to us as a company but to us as a company and to us as black people, because we were really in the front row of that.Now there are companies that are just starting to open, hence they are suffering brand credibility In our case it was double. It was then in your capacity of being the first generation of black people to get into the profession. So there was no trust into the black community and into the profession as such.So that was the major challenge.SIKI MGABADELI: That was Sindi Zilwa, co-founder and CEO of Nkonki.