SIKI MGABADELI: Time now for our Tipping Point feature, which is about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are.Today we are speaking to Ipeleng Mkhari, who is founder of Motseng Investment Holdings. She takes us through her journey.IPELENG MKHARI: It&#8217;s been an 18-year journey for me. I started quite fresh out of university, about a year or so post my graduation. I decided to embark on an entrepreneurial career and have been at it ever since and I&#8217;ve loved it.TUMISANG NDLOVU: The decision to start up your own where did that come from?IPELENG MKHARI: Well, I should be clear to the listeners to say that it wasn t entirely my decision. I think it also kind of fell onto my lap and the challenge was too exciting for me to ignore. So really I came to a point about 1998. I had finished my studies in 1996 and I graduated in April of 97.I worked for about a year for an organisation and after about a year of working for them, six months into my tenure, I realised that I was a bit of a front and I decided to start working on my own business plan around becoming an entrepreneur in the sector that I was operating in, which was CCTV.And, lo and behold, the opportunity to actually become an entrepreneur did present itself towards the end of that first year at work. I decided to resign from this organisation and requested the organisation to register the company that I was working on, or that I was servicing, to be registered in my own name as a sole proprietor and as a black woman who could actually take this forward. I d seen a particular opportunity in that industry.And so I think it just essentially grew from there and I really looked at the growth of this particular business very, very aggressively at a very young age and it was very hard. I lost a lot of opportunities, way more than I actually gained. And the business has grown and kind of the metamorphosis of the organisation has been quite organic because we moved from being a small CCTV business.I then established Motseng Investment Holdings with a partner at the time, and the business has really moved to other things outside of the soft services of the CCTV arena. We operate very much in the built environment or the property environment today.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Motseng is quite a dynamic company that takes on quite a lot of roles. Explain to us how you brought all of that under one roof.IPELENG MKHARI: I think what&#8217;s important to say is that for the first ten years of the business we really were quite focused on a particular stream, and that was between 98 and 2008. That stream started off with property management after the CCTV business, collecting rentals, servicing our landlords, making sure that the utilities were paid on time and bringing them lots of tenants.We then moved into what we call facilities management three years later in about 2005, and that was a natural move for us because we felt that while property management was very income-driven, facilities management really was about the expense management of that income, and we established a business called Motseng Facilities Management.We focused on those two businesses interchangeably with separate management teams. We had been involved in other businesses such as the CCTV business a little bit broader in terms of physical security and waste management, but that didn t go very well. We lost a lot of money and we sold those businesses.SIKI MGABADELI: That s was Ipeleng Mkhari, who is founder of Motseng Investment Holdings.