Ing Lamprecht: Nobody in their right mind would visit Helsinki in November and December. Yet, 17 500 people have braced the weather in Finland to attend Slush, one of the world s largest gatherings of start-up entrepreneurs and investors.One of these start-ups is South African educational technology company, LIMU. LIMU is a school portal and mobile app that connects teachers, learners and parents on a single platform. It recently expanded into corporate artisan and blue-collar training.LIMU Founder, Xola Ndziba, joins me now.Ing Lamprecht: What sparked the idea for LIMU?Xola Ndziba: Hi, thanks a lot for having me. I think mostly from my experiences ideas come about from working through bad experiences that I ve had myself and trying to find a solution to solve that particular problem. So I mean the birth of LIMU came about just through my experience at university. We had a very well run learner management system that essentially allowed me to access my work anytime at any given stage, right. So that means if I would fly back from Cape Town and be at home with my family I d still be able to submit all my assignments. I d still be able to have contact with all my lecturers and my peers digitally and I d still be able to access all my work with me at that given stage right. And I think that was very important because that s something that wasn t there ten years before my experience at varsity. And I saw a large gap in that application for high schools in particular. In high school you would have a Flip File typically and that is where you would keep all your work but I know with advances in technology you are able to have all your work with you digitally, whether it be on a mobile device or on a desktop computer and it allows you to engage with your work at any given time anywhere you are in the world.Ing Lamprecht: Entrepreneurs often talk about the scalability of a business. Was that an important consideration in setting up the business?Xola Ndziba: Yes, definitely, definitely. I think if you really have a big dream and really want your solution to affect as many people as possible scalability is something that you definitely have to be thinking about and fortunately in most instances when working through tech, it allows scalability at a far quicker, more rapid pace as opposed to traditional brick and mortar. So definitely I mean in the consideration of thinking through iterating on LIMU scalability is one of the top priorities.Ing Lamprecht: Last night, one entrepreneur said it basically sucks to be a start-up owner 98% of the time. What has been your biggest frustration?Xola Ndziba: (Laughing) You probably got that percentage a bit wrong, it is probably 98.2% of the time. But yeah, I mean look it is definitely an experience that I will always draw pride and enjoyment from. Just knowing that you are effecting change on the world in some form, some fashion, through you know magic basically. I mean starting a business is creating something from absolutely nothing. Before you were doing anything, there was nothing, there was no solution to a particular problem and now there is magically something that can solve a problem.With regards to challenges that we ve experienced. I think especially in South Africa the space for angel and venture capital funding in the very early stages are still very young. But I am very excited about the fact that a lot of venture capitals and angel investors are sort of coming to the party now, understanding the dynamics of starting a company pre-revenue and understanding the vision that entrepreneurs are having as opposed to sort of the established markets where they ve gone through that phase of business and are willing to take risk on pre-revenue. In South Africa, pre-revenue start-up companies are very under-funded and I think that is just supply and demand, right? Once success stories like all the people that have come to Slush and LIMU itself are exposed to sort of networks of venture capitals they understand that these were pre-revenue companies at one stage as well and have matured into post-revenue companies and are very fundable and there is great returns in funding companies which are at early stages.Ing Lamprecht: How did you approach the funding conundrum?Xola Ndziba: That is very interesting right. I think every entrepreneur goes through the cycle of begging and borrowing and half the time stealing from family [and] friends, and I think it is a very important stage especially in the beginning stages, just to sort of test how well you are able to sell your idea to close ones at least. So initially that was a stage and we got to a stage where we were very comfortable with our business model and we got initial funding from the Innovation Hub, which really supported us at the beginning and we ve expanded to the point where the traditional South African VC s are looking into investing into the company to expand it well beyond just the borders of South Africa, but you know the markets which are ready for such technology throughout the world.Ing Lamprecht: Why would a South African start-up fly halfway across the world to attend Slush?Xola Ndziba: (Laughing) That is very interesting because as I got onto the flight travelling up to Finland, I remember recording on my watch it being 36 degrees and I ve literally travelled to a place 46 degrees colder than [the one] I left. But I think what is most important especially for LIMU in particular. I think I ll talk about LIMU in particular and then I ll talk broadly about other companies that are here. LIMU we have recently expanded into corporate artisan and blue-collar training, right, an example of that is training warehouse staff at particular corporates and the reason being that we saw a large gap in the skillset and sort of standardisation of skills in blue-collar work. The training of white-collar work, desk employees is very well saturated and there is awesome solutions that are advancing people s careers within that space, but a very largely neglected space is the training of artisans and I think the reason being is that the solutions that are provided for white collar training are largely expensive and sort of the lower end of corporate budgets with regards to blue collar artisan training has never matched up to the white collar training budgets so they just neglected it and have non-electronic training that happens there which is very unfortunate because that doesn t allow artisans to be trained at scale and it is very hard to manage and standardise the training across the industry. I will give you an example. The paper industry, each individual industry player would train their particular employees whereas what a cost effective solution should be is training collaboration between those companies and having some sort of standard of what an artisan who is in the pulp industry should look like and having companies effect that training digitally to have one standard so an artisan can move from one company to another without having to be retrained every given time and all the players knowing that that person s skillset is standardised all across that industry in particular. There is great technologies and content I think that is one aspect that we are enabling for South Africa is looking at the standardised content that sort of established educational markets like Finland have and importing that into South Africa and curating that into a South African context I think that is the main reason that we have attended Slush. And with regards to other companies, it is just great exposure for South African companies to see what is out there and also to understand that expansion into the European market is very possible with sort of networks and collaborations at such events.Ing Lamprecht: What do you think South African start-ups can learn from their Finnish counterparts?Xola Ndziba: What can we learn? I think from the few days that we ve been here, we found ourselves teaching a lot to our Finnish counterparts, which is a very exciting thing. There is a very sort of large misconception of what Africa looks like and what South Africa is in particular and these encounters with large amounts of people and carrying the flag of South Africa with regards to how open it is for business is very eye-opening for them and I mean for instance last night we had an event which was essentially a workshop and networking event specifically for South African companies interacting with Finnish and European counterparts in all spheres of industry and it was very interesting sort of the conversations that were happening and the ideas of what Europeans perceive South Africa as and our educating them of what the realities are in South Africa and sort of enabling collaborations and connections and networks for them to expand into South Africa. So I think what has been very important for us is the teachings that we have with the companies in Finland.Ing Lamprecht: Just lastly, what opportunities are there to expand LIMU?Xola Ndziba: Events like Slush really open those doors for international expansion and that is something that we ve been playing around and toying around for a while. And it sort of puts context to how it actually happens. What is most important for us, especially in the next country that we expand into, is creating a good network of people who will help us understand the industry and help us understand expansion into that industry, but not only expansion outside the country. It is also collaboration with sort of world leaders in particular fields and bringing those expertise into the way we function as LIMU within our country itself and one example of that obviously is the standardisation of content for artisan training which we are doing with a lot of the corporates in South Africa itself.Ing Lamprecht: That was LIMU founder, Xola Ndziba.