Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.Now the cutReaching a deal to cut production is one thing; getting an actual reduction in global output is another. Crude production from Opec members is likely to have risen to a record 34.16 million barrels a day in November, with African members leading the gains, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts. The organisation has invited 14 other crude producers, who together account for about a fifth of global production, to a meeting in Vienna this week aimed at securing wider production cuts. A barrel of West Texas Intermediate for January delivery was 20 cents lower at $51.59 by 5:17am ET. German factory ordersSurprisingly strong factory data from Germany showed orders surged 4.9% in October, far ahead of analysts expectations for a 0.6% gain, with the growth led by a jump in demand for investment goods. Also in Germany this morning, energy utilities RWE and EON saw strong gains after the country&#8217;s top court ruled that the companies are entitled to compensation from the nation&#8217;s decision to exit nuclear energy for power generation. EU puts pressure on Brexit European Union governments are preparing to increase the pressure on UK Prime Minister Theresa May to secure a post-Brexit trade deal with the EU, or risk losing out on the transitional phase businesses want, according to officials familiar with the matter. It is proving a difficult week for May, with her lawyers having a difficult first day yesterday at the Supreme Court appeal over the triggering of Article 50, while she faces a possible rebellion by some of her party members in a debate in parliament tomorrow demanding her government publishes a plan for Brexit before starting exit negotiations. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney, meanwhile, has warned about the risks of pulling back from globalisation, saying the world faces its first lost decade since the 1860s. Market riseOvernight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.9% while Japan&#8217;s Topix index added 1.1% as shares there caught up with yesterday&#8217;s rally and were helped by weak yen. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index added 0.2% by 5:24am ET with banks and utilities leading the gains. S&amp;P 500 futures were broadly unchanged. Trump policy pushbackPresident-elect Donald Trump&#8217;s protectionist trade policies, in which he has threatened to use taxes as &#8216;retribution&#8217; against US companies that move jobs overseas, are prompting resistance from some Republican leaders. Barclays Plc, meanwhile, has calculated that Warren Buffett s Berkshire Hathaway could get a boost of $29 billion to its book value should the PEOTUS follow through on the domestic corporate tax cuts he promises. 2016 Bloomberg