On Wednesday the High Court in Pretoria dismissed an application by the former deputy registrar of pension funds at the Financial Services Board, Rosemary Hunter. She had asked the court to supervise an investigation into the disputed cancellations project that saw thousands of pension funds deregistered between 2007 and 2013.Hunter has always believed that the project was conducted unlawfully and that it was flawed in its execution. She argued that there is a clear possibility that certain funds were cancelled even though members were still owed money. Those members have therefore suffered material prejudice.Although the judgement is a setback to Hunter&#8217;s efforts to have the project thoroughly scrutinised, it made no findings about whether or not her concerns were justified. Judge Hendrik Jacobs said that it was not within his remit to consider or adjudicate upon the merits or demerits of the cancellation project .In other words, it still needed to be investigated.The FSB argued that this is currently happening. It has appointed pension fund lawyer Jonathan Mort to inspect a number of funds that were cancelled, and his efforts are still ongoing.Hunter has however always said that this process is inadequate and cannot address all of the serious issues raised in a previous investigation by KPMG. However, the court appeared satisfied that Mort should be allowed to complete his study.Hunter&#8217;s optionsFollowing the judgement Hunter told Moneyweb that she is considering asking for leave to appeal. She has put so much into this matter already that it seems unlikely that she will let it rest.However, an appeal may prove difficult. The court found that she had no legal basis for bringing her application, and that will be hard to overcome.Judge Jacobs did however suggest that Hunter should have considered what other options were available to her other than going to the courts. In particular, he suggested that as Hunter believed she was acting in the public interest, that the Public Protector could have been approached to look into the matter.This would certainly appear to be a viable option now that the court has refused to appoint itself to oversee the investigation. The Public Protector would be well placed to determine whether there was anything untoward about the way that the project was handled.FSB&#8217;s credibility problemIt would even be in the interests of the FSB for this to happen, because the regulator has put itself in a difficult position. By initially refusing to release the first reports on the cancellations project written by Justice Kate O&#8217;Reagan and KPMG it created the impression that it had something to hide.That those reports supported Hunter&#8217;s arguments that there were material concerns about the way the project had been handled, only made this worse. And that the FSB only released them after another report from Mort had been put together, which called KPMG&#8217;s findings into question, raised even more concerns.It appeared that the FSB was only willing to release the KPMG report once it had something it could use to discredit that report&#8217;s findings. That did not put the regulator in a very good light.One of the great challenges for any regulator is not just to do the right thing, but to be seen to be doing the right thing. That is necessary to keep the confidence of the public. In this case, unfortunately, the FSB failed that test.Whatever Mort finds, therefore, will always be called into doubt unless some kind of independent assessment of all the reports in their totality is undertaken. An investigation by the Public Protector would allow for that and would therefore also allow for the FSB to regain some of the public confidence it has lost.Financial prejudiceThis is even more important in light of the fact that Mort has already identified issues with certain funds. The amounts involved may be much smaller than those suggested by KPMG, which found that there was a high likelihood that members suffered prejudice amounting to R2.5 billion, but they are not insignificant.The reality is that if anyone suffered any prejudice, then that must be corrected. And the public at large needs to be satisfied that the FSB has in fact done everything it could to identify and rectify any problems.It is also worth bearing in mind that no investigations into the project may have occurred at all unless Hunter had begun to raise concerns. Whatever it may feel about the way she has gone about dealing with this matter, the FSB does owe her that acknowledgement.