There is something odd about the South African unit trust industry. According to Bloomberg, it is one of the only mature markets in the world where performance does not dictate asset allocation .On the face of it, that sounds like a very strange statement to make. South African investors and financial advisers are obsessed with performance and use past returns as the most important guide to selecting funds.However, this is only true within fund categories. It is not the case across them.Multi-asset high equity funds have become by far the most popular choice in the local market, even though the overwhelming majority of top performing unit trusts over the long term are to be found in other categories. The below table shows the category breakdown of the top 25 South African funds over the last ten years, excluding listed property and sector-specific funds:Category breakdown of top 25 SA funds over 10 yearsFund categoryNumberSouth Africa multi-asset flexible5South Africa equity small cap1South Africa equity large cap1South Africa equity general16South Africa multi-asset high equity2Source: MorningstarMulti-asset high equity funds hardly feature in this table, which is dominated by equity unit trusts. The top four funds over this period are actually all flexible funds that are run as equity portfolios, but with the ability to hold cash when good investment opportunities are hard to find.Given these figures, you would expect investors to have viewed equity funds as their best option over the past decade. However, as Bloomberg points out, this is not the case.Since December 2006, the number of South African funds available to investors has grown from 633 to 1209. That is growth of 90.1%.Over this time the number of domestic equity funds has increased from 185 to 293, which is only 58.4%. New multi-asset funds have been launched at nearly three times this rate. Their number has jumped from 285 to 717, a growth of 151.6%.The difference in the growth in assets under management in these categories has been ever sharper. The below chart shows their relative growth over the last ten years.Source: AsisaWhile the assets held in equity funds have just more than doubled over the past ten years, the money in multi-asset funds has multiplied eight times. Currently, 50.6% of all the money invested in domestic funds is held in multi-asset portfolios. If you exclude money market funds, that goes up to 60.6%.There is therefore clearly a mismatch between which funds are delivering long-term performance and which are attracting the most assets. The below table illustrates this distinction:Fund allocation mismatch Equity generalMulti-asset high equityAssets under management in SA funds18.1%24.1%Top 25 performers over 10 years64.0%8.0%Top 50 performers over 10 years50.0%22.0%Source: Asisa &amp; MorningstarIt is important to note that there are good reasons for investing in multi-asset funds. One is that most of them comply with Regulation 28 and can therefore be used in retirement funding vehicles such as retirement annuities. A second is that they do reduce volatility, and can therefore make it easier for investors to stay invested even in choppy markets.However, if investors are most concerned about long-term, inflation-beating performance, then they should perhaps be asking if they don&#8217;t have better options. Equities have proved time and time again that as an asset class they deliver the highest returns over the long term, argues Adriaan Pask, chief investment officer at PSG Wealth. So, if investors truly believe the principle that equity investments are long-term commitments, should they be concerned about short- and medium-term volatility? Pask conducted an analysis that showed that between January 31 1960 and September 30 2016 the FTSE/JSE All Share Index (Alsi) recorded a nominal return of 11.97% per annum. If you adjust this for inflation, the real return is 3.60%.With dividends reinvested, the long-term total return increases to 16.88%. That is an additional 4.38%. This shows that equities can deliver a real return of inflation plus 3.60%, without the reinvestment of dividends, Pask explains. When the dividends are reinvested, equities could offer a real return of 8.14% over the long term. Equity, without any doubt, is the only asset class that can beat inflation at this rate. In other words, equity remains the asset class with the highest potential to create wealth , Pask says. And for investors with long time horizons, it&#8217;s worth asking whether this shouldn&#8217;t be the priority.