South Africa is a water-constrained, mining-based economy. The discovery of gold in 1886 drove this country s modern history and led to the establishment of Johannesburg &#8211; the world s largest city not built on a major river or waterfront. From a hydrological perspective, this means that water is pumped uphill to sustain the City of Gold. It also means that Johannesburg is upstream of all other water consumers in the country, with specific implications for the poor.A 2011 study by Dorothy Tang and Andrew Watkins, university professors in landscape architecture and urban design, revealed that 1.6 million people were living in informal settlements in and around Johannesburg, or 25% of the city s greater urban population. Of these 1.6 million, 400 000 people were living in townships in Johannesburg and Ekurhuleni, located mostly on mine residue area (MRA) land: property associated with mining operations and its waste. These informal settlements are the nexus between water, poverty and mining. For every tonne of gold brought to the surface over 130 years of mining, between ten and 100 tonnes of uranium were also brought up and separated at the top, depending on the specific reef being mined. Until uranium became a tradable commodity (shortly after the first nuclear bomb was dropped on Hiroshima), it was discarded as waste, leaving Johannesburg with the dubious distinction as the world s most uranium-contaminated city, according to a study for the Gauteng Department of Agriculture and Rural Development. A December 2011 study for the Gauteng legislature concluded that soil contamination from the mining dumps and waste was a pollution hazard . This report also admitted that people are contaminated by, or externally exposed to elevated levels of radiation after unauthorised entry to a mine site, by living in settlements directly adjacent to mines or in some cases, living in settlements on the contaminated MRAs of abandoned mines. Direct access to mine sites may also expose the public to risk due to direct external gamma radiation, radon exposure, inhalation and ingestion of radionuclides and chemotoxic metals, as well as the physical dangers inherent to mining sites. The report exhorted the national and provincial governments to prioritise managing the water entering the mine void. Instead for nearly six years now, the government has continued to focus on the outflow of acid mine drainage (AMD) without any understanding of the physics and chemistry involved.Stated simply: what flows into the void later flows out elsewhere. By preventing the ingress of water, the outflow is greatly reduced. This government inaction means that AMD has been allowed to discharge freely into the Vaal River system &#8211; the bodies of water closest to the mines. The surface movement of rainwater over mine residues further pollutes South Africa s main water resource. As mentioned above, nearly half a million poor people live in informal settlements, often adjacent to mine dumps. Many of these people grow food along the Vaal River and its various streams. Repeated cycles of flooding and drought have coated these banks with a sediment of alluvial soil that is contaminated with uranium and other toxic metals associated with mining. Ironically, the science on the health implications associated with uranium is sparse, because this radioactive metal is associated with nuclear energy and classified as top secret by governments. Only now is some research emerging, after US veterans from the 1991 Gulf War were exposed to depleted uranium used in anti-tank artillery shells.Researchers examining Gulf war syndrome and other scientists have concluded that uranium s chemical toxicity is more hazardous than its radiation risk. Uranium exposure damages people s neurological systems and kidneys, according to these new studies.Although many poor people live close to uranium-contaminated land, on which they sometimes grow subsistence crops, we do not know if this exposure is compromising their health because the government and the gold mining industry have consistently stonewalled attempts to conduct direct research with enough people over a long-enough period. Neither of these parties has an interest in confronting the uranium liability issue.In science, a principle known as Occams Razor, developed by a 14th Century Franciscan philosopher, states that in the absence of complete knowledge about a complex problem, the most logical answer is probably right.Applying this reasoning means that poor people living in informal settlements on mine residue areas and growing food along the banks of streams draining such land have a higher probability of direct exposure to the hazards of uranium and other toxic metals than more affluent citizens living elsewhere.While the quantum of this risk is unknown, the threat is clear to any person using solid logic.The solution to understanding and dealing with the risk associated with exposure to uranium requires an honest engagement between the scientific community and government. With gold mining in sharp decline, most mining operations face closure in the next decade. The population density near MRA land is likely to accelerate given that it is the only land readily available and the demand is so high. This land will probably remain unrehabilitated because inadequate funding has been set aside for this purpose, according to a 2012 World Wide Fund for Nature report. For many South Africans being poor means the absence of choice on long-term exposure to uranium and other toxic metals directly linked to MRA land. The absence of coherent government policy on this specific issue is alarming. Sprawling townships and subsistence food production along the banks of streams draining MRA land, need to be managed if government is to fulfil its constitutional obligations that citizens have a right to a safe environment.This article is based on a report titled Water Pollution and South Africa s Poor that was published by the IRR recently. The IRR is a think tank that promotes political and economic freedom.