The past year delivered some exceptional political surprises. In the Brexit vote in the UK and the election of Donald Trump in the US, two of the world&#8217;s most admired democracies showed that no country is immune to populism.This is a theme that is growing across Europe too. Ideologies that not very long ago would have been considered extreme, are becoming successful political platforms. It is clear that voters are drawn to these parties and candidates because they believe that the current system doesn&#8217;t represent them. They see far-left or far-right movements (and it doesn&#8217;t seem to matter which) as a way to assert themselves against a perceived &#8216;political elite&#8217;.It is something of a democratic revolt, although its unclear whether the leaders of these movements and the people who vote for them really have the same goals. How many British voters, for instance, truly appreciate what it will mean to leave the European Union (EU)? It is such a complex issue, that it&#8217;s highly unlikely that most voters really knew what they were being asked in the referendum.One can therefore argue that the result was not really about the EU. It was about voters making it clear that they were tired of being taken for granted.Something similar happened in the US. Trump appealed to those who felt neglected, overlooked and under-represented. They weren&#8217;t just voting for him, they were voting against a system that they believed isn&#8217;t working for them.What&#8217;s interesting is that there is a similar trend in South Africa, although it is taking shape along very different lines.The political push-back in the UK, US and Europe is framed in ideology. The movements are built on populist, nationalistic political aims such as stifling immigration.In South Africa, however, it seems that the opposite is happening. We are moving away from ideology as the main factor in casting our votes.For two decades the ANC has relied on the support of voters who identify with its history and its political aims. A majority kept supporting it because they simply couldn&#8217;t conceive of aligning with anyone else.However, the ANC&#8217;s political capital has drained extremely quickly under Jacob Zuma. Just like elsewhere in the world, voters have begun to realise that they are being taken for granted.The president continues to preach the ANC&#8217;s ideology he likes to roll out the &#8216;good story to tell&#8217; narrative, and when his position is challenged he talks about not surrendering to the enemy . But large numbers of South African voters are starting to reject this.Increasingly what parties stand for are being seen as less important than what they actually do. The political revolt in South Africa is not a populist one, but one that is demanding accountability.What voters here are asking for is good, clean governance. We want leaders who are serious about dealing with corruption, protecting public institutions and building an inclusive economy.The ANC is failing in these key respects, and that is what is forcing voters to reconsider their loyalty. And the party&#8217;s ideology is not going to save it from that.