This time of year sees both children and adults preparing their wish-lists for the upcoming festive season. But as many South Africans continue to grapple with rising debt, now is a good time to shift the focus from giving material items to providing future financial well-being. Giving a child an investment as a gift will not only promote a culture of saving from a young age, but will also show them how you can make money grow. There&#8217;s a powerful story of one customer s commitment to leave a legacy for his family, and the value of sound financial advice. In November 1968, a customer made an initial deposit of R400 into the Old Mutual Investors Fund and 48 years later, his investment is today worth over R600 000.More precious than the value of his money, however, was the culture of saving and the legacy that he passed on to his children and grandchildren. On special occasions such as Christmas and birthdays, he invested a set amount of money on his children&#8217;s or grandchildren&#8217;s behalf. With this investment, his daughter was able to provide for her daughter s schooling.If South Africa is to develop a generation of financially savvy adults, it is crucial to not just talk about it, but actually practise good money habits. It is important to teach your children about money, and the festive season with the spirit of giving is a good time of the year for parents to set a good example. Teach your children about the importance of giving within your means, as well as showing them the value of relaxing with family and rewinding after a long, hard year, while respecting the value of hard-earned money.Families should consider starting a financial tradition of their own. Set a reasonable budget for gift giving this festive season, and instead of spending all your money on gifts that are likely to fade, go missing or be forgotten, speak to your financial adviser about starting an investment in the name of your children.When children become old enough to understand more about money management, parents should involve them in the process. Teach them the principle of compound interest and explain why putting money away today means they will have more money tomorrow. Help them set a budget for the money they ll receive over the festive season, encouraging them to spend a smaller percentage today, and investing the rest for the future.Here are various ways you can give a gift that keeps on giving long after the hype of the festive period has subsided:It is never too late to start saving, but the sooner the better, so don t delay and start today by speaking to a financial adviser. Saving and investing make wishes come true.Mayur Lodhia is head of retail savings at Old Mutual