SIKI MGABADELI: Fred Hurter is a managing member at Chrismar Healthcare Consultants and joins us now. Fred, thanks so much for your time today. Talk us through your particular investment philosophy, and how you persuade clients to invest in medical aid.FRED HURTER: Hi, Siki, thank you very much. I think it&#8217;s more than just an investment philosophy. The challenge within the medical aid market is for people to make sure that they invest in a medical scheme that suits them rather than just trying to fit into a scheme.Just like short-term insurance, you can be under-insured, you can be over-insured. You ve just got to make sure that you fit right into the framework of a scheme s options, otherwise you are wasting your money.So I think with medical aid being a grudge payment, people must make sure that they take the right options.SIKI MGABADELI: Talking about that, how important are fees, then, when you are determining the type of medical aid that one wants to get involved in?FRED HURTER: You get different kinds of schemes. You get hospital plans, you get the traditional savings plan, and a hybrid of both. I think people must take something that they can afford and equalise that with exactly what kind of cover they need.If you are still young and not sickly, preferably under the age of 30, you would probably fit into a hospital-plan kind of environment. The minute you start looking at family composition, then you are moving away from a hospital plan. And as you grow older you grow into a bigger scheme. Obviously the fees follow that, and they start from cheap and then obviously go a lot higher.Fees are very important when people compare that to their budgets. If people are prepared to make more than just a monthly contribution, they can look at schemes with a threshold or where there are higher co-payments. But if you cannot do that, you ve got to make sure that you fit into a scheme or you find a scheme that ll cover exactly what you need, and you don t have to have those expenses also out of pocket.SIKI MGABADELI: I ask about fees because often people make these decisions based on ooh, let me get the cheapest, and then they hit a brick wall when it comes to a time when they have a major health scare, for example, which is suddenly not covered. And then they realise that they ve made a financial and a health mistake as well. So what sort of mistakes do you see clients making when it comes to this?FRED HURTER: People think that they are empowered enough to maybe self-fund day-to-day benefits, what we traditionally call your pills, your spectacles, you teeth and your doctor visits. People think that they have enough money to try and finance that, and then they will go for something like a hospital plan or a hospital option that just covers major high-risk events in terms of hospitalisation.But what people don t realise is, for instance, some of the costs that you might incur if you have to go to the emergency wards. While you are lying in the emergency area of a hospital, certain things would not be covered in some hospital plans. You need cover for that. So there you could and I would say you should look at products like gap cover that would cover that gap, and also help that.And the other thing is that people also don t realise, talking about gap cover, that there is a major difference between the fees that some specialists charge and the 100% fee that a scheme would pay. That shortfall you need to make sure that you have enough cover for that, and that s where a short-term insurance product like the gap covers out there would be absolutely essential to get for yourself.SIKI MGABADELI: We&#8217;ll leave it there. Thanks for your time today, Fred Hurter from Chrismar Healthcare Consultants.