Owning a sea-facing mansion in the Western Cape s millionaires playground of Plettenberg Bay, a pied- -terre in the coastal enclave of Jeffreys Bay in the Eastern Cape or a gated estate property in KwaZulu-Natal s swanky Umhlanga as part of a holiday home isn t as in vogue as it used to be.Buyers hitching their wagons on SA s holiday homes during the boom years of 2004 to 2007 were handsomely rewarded with house prices clocking up annual growth of between 30% to 50% and the demand for properties on the up.How times have changed since then. The 2008 global financial hit, sending the price of many coastal properties across the country crashing by at least 40% and the demand was virtually zero. More than eight years later, the holiday home market continues to muddle along with industry players still reporting a heightened glut of properties for sale and humdrum capital appreciation of homes.On the latter, FNB s latest data reveals that holiday homes posted negative year-on-year price growth of 4.1% in the first quarter of 2016 (See graph below). The figures are compiled from the deeds registry data for towns typically deemed to be holiday property driven.Source: FNBFNB s property strategist John Loos says it s natural for the performance of holiday towns to be more cyclical than the primary residential market, given the non-essential nature of holiday homes.Ronald Ennik of Gauteng-based Ennik Estates agrees with Loos: If people go through hard times they tend to sell their holiday properties and hold on to their primary properties. Loos says the market is more sensitive to economic events such as slow economic growth, rising interest rates and waning consumer confidence. The golden rule is that holiday homes typically mirror the state of the economy and primary residential market, which is still in the doldrums.Most property economists have downgraded their 2016 nominal (not adjusted for inflation) house price forecasts to 3% and 4% from the 5% initially touted in January. In real terms (after inflation is factored in), negative growth of 1.5% to 2.5% is projected. Read more here Part one: Another feeble year for SA s housing market.The outlook ain t prettyThe outlook for the holiday home market doesn t look promising. Jawitz Properties CEO Herschel Jawitz says although the holiday home market has improved in the years following the financial crisis, the challenge is that the number of holiday homes for sale that exceed the demand from buyers . This is expected to remain into 2017, Jawitz tells Moneyweb.Seeff Property Services chairman Samuel Seeff supports Jawitz s view adding that there will be buyers in the market if sellers reasonably price their holiday homes. If you are hoping to get double-digit growth for the next two to three years in order to be able to trade up and make money, I don t think that is going to happen at the moment, says Seeff.Seeff adds that in some coastal towns the demand for holiday homes has been impacted by the advent of home-sharing app Airbnb, which has been widely adopted in the Western Cape. Airbnb is going to change the entire holiday home market. People will say we will rent a house here and there [using Airbnb] instead of buying a home . However, there is a silver ling in the market. The interest rate rising cycle, which has seen rates rise by 200 basis points since the hiking cycle began in January 2014, might be over and coupled with holiday home prices that are under pressure, buyers can achieve bargains. Buyers are now in a good position when sellers are a bit desperate to sell their properties. And therefore they can call the shots, says Ennik.Hot propertyPam Golding Property (PGP) group CEO Andrew Golding says the company is still seeing increased demand in the Western Cape s Atlantic Seaboard Clifton, the V&amp;A Waterfront and Bantry Bay in particular. He adds that free-standing homes in the Atlantic Seaboard are commanding eye-watering valuations, with the average selling price escalating to R14.4 million in the year to October 2016.A similar trend is also similar in Knysna, Plettenberg Bay and George on the old-money Garden Route. Golding says seafront vacant land in Hermanus is starting to sell as buyers have an insatiable appetite to rebuild homes from scratch. Underscoring this is that PGP recently sold two luxury homes in Hermanus for R26 million and R19 million respectively.In KwaZulu-Natal, gated estates are in vogue, especially on the northern coastline. Golding says beachfront estates in Umhlanga are proving to be popular as a number of luxury estates are breaking ground. Vacant stands priced between R4.9 million up and R10.5 million are in demand. Buyers are taking advantage of house prices in the Eastern Cape that have lagged behind other regions across the country in recent years. PGP is seeing increased interest in prime properties above R3 million in Port Elizabeth.