So what can you get on the resource market for R30 billion (or $2.2 billion) these days?That s the question investors in Sibanye Gold will be pondering as they head to the beach in December. There are two ways investors can vote for this transaction. Firstly, by giving their consent to the company to proceed with the acquisition, and secondly, by funding it. At the announcement last Friday, Sibanye CEO Neal Froneman indicated Sibanye would turn to shareholders for an additional $750 million (currently R10.3 billion) by way of a rights issue. We have provided some idea of the permutations of the rights offer in the table below. Should investors not follow their rights, share dilution could vary between 23% (best case) and 48% (worst case), and if all things remain equal, 33%, at current spot prices.Permutations of rights offer So the question then becomes, what is Sibanye getting for their money? Stillwater is an integrated platinum and palladium producer that has two active mines (Stillwater and East Boulder) that are both located in Montana. The company also operates a smelter with a base metal refinery and platinum group metal (PGM) recycling facility nearby. Unlike the composition of South Africa s PGM deposits, the deposits Stillwater owns are predominantly palladium rich the 25-year life-of-mine reserves comprise 78% palladium and 22% platinum. Last year (December is the company s financial year end) the company produced 520 thousand ounces of PGMs from mined production at an all-in sustaining cost (AISC) of $709 an ounce. This year, Stillwater expects mined production of between 535-545 thousand ounces at an AISC of between $595-$635 per PGM ounce. So production is going up and costs are coming down. Stillwater s Montana operations Source: Stillwater Mining In addition to the refined production, the company has been recycling ever greater quantities of PGMs, what Froneman described as a low risk, low margin business . In 2015, Stillwater recycled 551 thousand ounces of platinum, palladium and rhodium through its facility, and will increase significantly this year. The recycling aspect of the business is of strategic interest to Froneman. What has become clear to us through due diligence is that recycling is overstated, so once you understand the real size of secondary supply, you can make much more informed decisions about supply and demand fundamentals [in the broader market]. While Stillwater continues to extract more efficiency from its existing operations, it is also pursuing growth projects. The most tangible of these is the Blitz project adjacent the Stillwater mine which is due to start production in early 2018 and will ramp-up to steady-state by 2021. The project comes with a capital cost of $250 million, of which $150 million is outstanding, and should add between 270-330 thousand PGM ounces to annual production when bedded down. This should drop the company s AISC to the mid $500 range. The most attractive part of this deal looks to be the financial condition of the company. It has no net debt, and the margins the business enjoys means it can continue to self-fund its entire capital requirement. It has no debt repayments due until October 2019. This means it is congruent with Sibanye s dividend first strategy and should be a contributor to the healthy dividends the company pays in the near future. But this prosperous state of affairs appears to be a relatively new phenomenon. A review of the company s financial performance shows it incurred a cumulative net loss of $58.2 million for the five years from 2011-2015. If impairments of $509 million are excluded, this would have been a vastly different story. With impairments largely the result of poor capital allocations, let s hope the skills of the new owner-elect are superior!&nbsp;&nbsp;