Emerging-market stocks and currencies were poised for the biggest drop in a month after the Federal Reserve combined an anticipated interest rate increase with a surprise signal it will be more hawkish than expected next year. The dollar strengthened for a third day. This is a Fed that could be tighter than we thought, said Mohamed El-Erian, the chief economic adviser at Allianz SE and a Bloomberg View columnist. That s what really moved the market. The Federal Reserve boosted borrowing costs by 25 basis points and forecast a steeper path in 2017. That could spell trouble for emerging markets as higher dollar rates reduce the appetite for riskier assets. Policymakers in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain raised interest rates since the Fed s announcement on Wednesday. Bloomberg s Richard Breslow says the MSCI emerging currency index has given up the ghost after trying to claw its way back above the 200-day moving average. Its Fibonacci retracement chart has gone from looking cautiously optimistic to a classic fail.MarketsThe MSCI Emerging Market Index fell 1.4%. The MSCI EM Asia Index retreated 1.1% as all but one of the 10 industry gauges fell, led by energy shares. The MSCI Emerging-Markets Currency Index declined 0.8%. Dubai FM General Index slipped as much as 1%.The Indonesian government bonds led declines across most emerging debt, with the yield on 10-year bonds rising 17 basis points to 4.42%; the central bank kept interest rates unchanged. Yield on China s 2026 local-currency bonds added 15 basis points to a record 3.34%.The yield on South Africa s local-currency 10-year bonds advanced 15 basis points as the rand weakened 0.8%. South Korea s won was set for the biggest drop in a month.The Russian ruble is the biggest gainer in emerging currencies, strengthening 0.8%.ResearchThe outlook is negative for Turkish, Middle Eastern and South African non-financial companies in 2017 because of expected low economic growth, weak consumer and business confidence, and foreign exchange swings, Moody s Investors Service says.BNP Paribas favours Indian stocks, Indonesian bonds and currency and Brazil s real in emerging markets.The Bank of Korea is expected to cut interest rates next year because of worsening growth outlook after holding on Thursday, Capital Economics says. 2016 Bloomberg