A single good investment result cannot be taken as the norm. The Advertising Standards Authority of South Africa (ASA) was warned of this in 2000, with a consultant weighing in on complaints that the failed Progressive Systems College Guaranteed Growth (PSCGG) could be misrepresenting the facts.In the ongoing criminal trial of Tigon kingpins Gary Porritt and Sue Bennett, it emerged that there had been complaints by the Life Offices Association and the Association of Unit Trusts that PSCGG s advertisement was misleading.This was according to testimony from state witness Jack Milne, who testified about a report to a directorate of the ASA by consultant Louis Botes.PSCGG was an investment fund underwritten by Tigon, a listed financial services company of which Porritt was CEO. Bennett was a director of PSCGG and the State alleges that the two acted with a common purpose.Porritt and Bennett are facing more than 3 000 charges including racketeering, and contraventions of the Income Tax Act, Companies Act and Stock Exchanges Control Act relating to the collapse of PSCGG.Milne, former MD of PSCGG, is the first witness. He testified on Monday about proceedings before the ASA. PSCGG encouraged investors to put their money into the fund, rather than in unit trusts, based on Milne s spectacular results in an earlier investment competition run by well-known financial expert Magnus Heystek. Milne won the competition, as his stock portfolio far outperformed other participants who invested in unit trusts.A copy of the advertisement and a series of documents relating to the disputes were handed in as evidence. This is the advertisement:A directorate of the ASA initially found the advertisement to be misleading. Bennett drafted correspondence, with input from Porritt and Milne, in which almost every aspect of the ASA s ruling was questioned. This included the opinion of Botes. No further detail about Botes was given.Botes advised the directorate: The share market performances claimed by Milne is possible. My only concern is that it would have been easy for a shrewd and wealthy businessman to start 20 different R100-per-month portfolios and choose the best one for marketing and advertising purposes. Botes nevertheless said Milne s claim is a wake-up call to the huge unit trust industry and a stern warning to that financial journalist that uses the media as their platform to promote their own opinions , that such opinions can also be used to someone else s benefit, whether they like it or not.He then concluded: Mr Milne has done his homework and if he stands his ground he is going to shake up an industry (and the media) that is for some reason far too emotional about this whole issue. When the matter was taken on appeal, Milne objected to former JSE CEO Russell Loubser s presence on the appeals panel. He said both Bennet and Loubser was biased against them in separate, independent dealings they had had with him prior to the existence of PSCGG. In his case, he said, the bias was against him personally. He said Loubser s alleged bias affected both of them negatively and stated that in the case of Bennett and Tigon it resulted in what he called the unlawful suspension of Tigon (from trading on the JSE) .Milne appealed to Loubser to recuse himself from the appeals panel.It is not clear from the testimony in court whether Loubser did indeed do so, but the appeal succeeded and the earlier ruling against PSCGG was overturned.Earlier on Monday, Porritt complained to Judge Brian Spilg that he battled to keep up with taking notes during the trial.Both accused are unrepresented. Court proceedings have slowed to a snail s pace to accommodate his slow writing in an effort to ensure a fair trial. Porritt on Monday stated that he reviewed his notes from the first week of the trial, and noted its inadequacy, as he was denied enough time to make proper notes. Porritt said he tried to sort it out by himself, but despite his best efforts to keep up, about 30% of the proceedings are lost on him.This comes against the background of about a delay of about 14 years. The trial only started in September this year, after the accused brought several applications in an apparent effort to delay matters. In one of the matters the Supreme Court of Appeal found that they intend to employ every stratagem available to them in order to delay the commencement and thereafter continuation of the trial for as long as they possibly can .Spilg said the court cannot go any slower and pointed out that Porritt takes up to five minutes to write down a straightforward question. He said if needs be, he could instruct Porritt s attorney Frank Cohen to review Porritt s notes and assist him. He said Cohen has a responsibility as an officer of the court and a trustee of one of the trusts related to Porritt.Spilg left it to Porritt to indicate if he needed such assistance.The case continues on Wednesday and Porritt and Bennett s bail was extended accordingly.