In South Africa s somewhat peculiar banking system, monthly charges for transactional accounts are a given. But is the few hundred rand you re paying per month (if you re lucky!) the best possible deal?The first question you need to answer is whether you value having a platinum or private clients account with all the value-adds these offer?Things like lounge access, bundled credit cards and a personal banker are must-haves for some in the upper middle market. On the other end of the scale are basic, no-frills bank accounts (like Capitec s Global One (and the clones from the other major banks)), but the truth is that most people need something a little more comprehensive than that. There s likely a home loan, almost certainly vehicle finance and definitely a credit card.So, do you need a platinum (Premier/Prestige/Savvy Bundle)-type account? Do you actually use or need those value-adds? Or, do you enjoy the status of having a platinum or black credit card? (Here, emotion and ego comes into the equation .)This is an important question to answer, because the difference in bank charges between a more vanilla bundle account and platinum is easily 50%!While banks try to shoehorn you into product categories based on your salary or profession, there s nothing stopping you from moving to another product (or refusing those upgrades ). From a personal perspective, the only reason I have an FNB Premier (i.e. platinum) account (not gold) is because I do actually make use of the free , albeit diminishing, Slow Lounge access. And, the eBucks rewards I earn on this account are the most lucrative of the lot, based on the products I use, my transaction habits and spending patterns. ( Upgrading to Private Clients is a mugs game because the thresholds for earning rewards are significantly higher, to match one s status and earnings, of course!)Once you ve answered this question which is more important than most people realise the next step is to figure out whether a bundled account or pay-as-you-transact one makes the most sense. Most of us enjoy not having to worry , so we readily sign up for the all-in-one package without actually understanding the differences in pricing.For the purposes of this exercise, FNB pricing will be used (as its most relevant to me). But, the overall price structures (bundled vs unbundled) are roughly the same for the four full-service banks, and links to the most recent pricing for the various banks are available here:Now, figure out what an average month of transactions on your cheque account looks like. For most, this won t change meaningfully month-to-month. There ll be some debit orders (internal and external), electronic account payments, inter-account transfers (e.g. settling your credit card or moving money to a savings account), and perhaps some withdrawals from an ATM. It isn t too useful to look at one month in isolation as there may be atypical transactions that distort the picture.FNB Premier accountAmountPay-as-you-transactBundled optionMonthly fee R42R199Inter-account transfers2R3.20Electronic payments6R9.60Debit orders (internal/FNB)3R11.10Debit orders (external)4R67.80Cash withdrawals (R1000)1R18.50Premier Credit Card1R76&nbsp;&nbsp;R228.20In this example (loosely based on my transaction history), the bundled option makes the most sense. But, you ll find that this is not always the answer. It is worth dissecting what does and what doesn t form part of the bundled options from your bank. In all cases (at the higher end, i.e. platinum), debit orders and electronic transactions are free and some transactions like cash withdrawals are free up to a certain number per month. But there are some variances that will attract fees over and above the flat monthly rate.Once you ve done this exercise which you need only do once a year (June for FNB customers and December for Absa/Nedbank/Standard Bank ones), you ll know exactly which account type suits you best. If you re on pay-as-you-transact and you re spending more than R200 a month consistently, you should change to bundled. If you re on bundled and do a handful of transactions a month (and don t have too many (any) external debit orders), then pay-as-you-transact will save you money. You re not looking at hundreds of rands a month year, but across a year your savings would easily add up to over R1000.And if you don t need or want a credit card, the plain gold -type accounts are effectively half the price per month (R100). If you do, contrast the R200 a month you re likely spending with upwards of R350 (or R400!) for a Private Clients account and you ll realise what a waste those accounts are .* Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at [email&#160;protected]