SIKI MGABADELI: We are back on how to make your kid a millionaire. We&#8217;ve been asking you for tips to share how you are doing this for your own children. Today we are going to reveal the name of the winner with the best tip, and we are once again joined by Pieter du Toit from FNB Investments to tell us a little more about the winning tip and of course just give us other tips. Pieter, thanks so much for your time today.I think let&#8217;s start with the calibre of entries that you received. How did you feel about them?PIETER DU TOIT: Hi Siki. We had some excellent tips and I think some of the common principles that we had from the parents were, number one, that they all said that they encourage savings from a very young age and, number two, they want kids to earn money by doing their tasks and so forth and in that way they will actually value money so it s not easy come, easy go.Another thing that they commented on was that you need to teach a kid patience. And one of the examples was that they need to divide their money into three parts. One part that they can enjoy immediately for instant gratification, another part where they add a bit of their money together and they save over a relatively short time and they buy themselves something nice. And then the third part they need to save over a longer term.I think some of those ideas were quite good. And obviously there were a lot of comments on what to invest in, and how to invest. A very common theme. it s really high calibre, and it s something parents feel very strongly about and understand the importance of, so that was very good to see.SIKI MGABADELI: We are going to get to the winning tip in a moment but, as FNB Investments, would you say that reading the tips has helped you kind of think the way that you think about designing the kind of products available, because I think there was a piece of research done last year that said investment products today aren t catching up to the way that today s investor or potential investor thinks.PIETER DU TOIT: Absolutely. I think part of what we try and do on our side and we admit we still have a lot of work to do around it is that we certainly want to simplify things, and also explain clearly the whole continuum of here you invest in cash, and then what is the next logical step that you want to invest for, but longer, and then in the long term you go more for shares and so forth. So I think we can certainly do a bit more to make it simple.Another thing that we can also see is a lot of people want advice but even more nowadays they want to do things themselves. And that s also a reason why it s important to put things very simply so they can clearly understand what it is they want and what they are getting themselves into. So those are the kind of things we need to take into account. [Actually we have the tools] with online banking so our customers can actually help themselves and clearly see what they have. So excellent insights for us there as well.SIKI MGABADELI: So what stood out for you as the winning tip in this competition?PIETER DU TOIT: The reason why we picked this particular one as the winning tip is that it s quite simple and can apply to any family. Often one of the things preventing people from doing this is they say listen, my money is so tight, I can hardly get out on my own [money], let alone think about savings and investment. I think there is a very good message in there, but it actually applies to any household, and it s all about teaching children financial savvy.SIKI MGABADELI: Please read it out.PIETER DU TOIT: In this particular one the person said it was greatly encouraging teaching children about budgeting and savings and it was to involve them in doing the monthly groceries. So this particular person gave her son the newspaper inserts from the different retailers and said to him, we need to budget a certain amount to choose the groceries. And in that budget we need to come out with this money, and still have R100 left, which will then be his savings for his piggy bank.That teaches the child to prioritise needs and wants, and he is forced to decide on essentials and non-essentials. And it&#8217;s a fun way to teach needs and wants and this will be the basis also on which great savings habits are formed. We just thought it was a very good principle and something that anyone can apply, because everyone does grocery shopping every single month.SIKI MGABADELI: I love that, because even we adults fail to distinguish between what I need and what I want. I need that phone.So let&#8217;s give out the name of the winner.PIETER DU TOIT: It s Tiro Matjiu.SIKI MGABADELI: Congratulations to Tiro. A fantastic tip to teach children so early the difference between what you need and what you want. If you make that distinction you are then rewarded for it. I think that s fantastic.So what&#8217;s your advice, then, to everybody else about this journey of making their child a millionaire?PIETER DU TOIT: [Indistinct] to talk a bit more about you ve now decided you want to invest. The thing is you just need to take a step. You need to start somewhere, even if it&#8217;s small step.Then the next thing is you now need to choose well what you invest in and I think that s part of what FNB is trying to do. We&#8217;ve built five unit trusts which are very, very simple and we call that the Horizon Series. I just quickly want to go through the concept behind it.These five unit trusts cover five different time frames for you to invest in. So if you ve got a relatively short time frame, then it s a fairly stable fund that s mostly in cash and a little bit in bonds. So it s not volatile, it s not moving up and down a lot and it gives you a steady return.And then if you ve got a longer time frame, whether three years or five years, we introduce more equity into it. The nice thing about this is it s very, very simple. You just need to figure out what is your investment time horizon.We only have one fund. You don t need to choose we need to do the hard work and figure out what is exactly the best to invest. And it s multimanager one, so it s not just us managing the money, we use the best the stock market can offer you. And the nice thing about it is it gives you lots of diversification. There is property in there, there is offshore in there, there is equity in there, there is cash in there, and there are bonds in there.And then what we do get is something that is a lot less volatile say, for example, an exchange-traded fund. It s volatility that s actually scaring investors. And what typically happens with volatility is if markets go down then investors start to get worried and that s when they sell, and it s the worst thing they can do at that time. And really what we need to do in investing is stick to our investment plan and not panic when volatility sets in.We are trying to make it quite simple. We need to do the hard work and not offer you a thousand different choices. It s making a very, very simple choice. So now whether you are investing with ordinary exchange-traded funds, just start and stick to the plan and over time you will get great returns.