JOHANNESBURG South Africans investing offshore should at the very least balance their portfolios between high-quality bonds and equities for the next ten to 15 years, as equity markets post lower returns and domestic bonds pose equity-like risk, says Annelise Peers, chief investment officer (CIO) at Investec Wealth and Investment in Switzerland. If you have a sideways market, which I believe we re going to have, with returns of 4% in equities, you need to have proper insurance in your portfolios, Peers tells Moneyweb. G10 government debt is proper insurance, she adds.Peers sovereign debt portfolio is up nearly 11% year-to-date. It includes US Treasuries, German bonds, Japanese debt, UK debt, Aussie-dollar debt and Canadian-dollar debt. Peers recently sold small positions in Italian and Spanish debt. Barring January 2009, bonds have protected investors in every major crises, Peers notes.US ten-year government bonds sold off more than equities in January 2009 as markets recovered from the global financial crisis, and there was anticipation that the US Federal Reserve would stop buying treasuries and quantitative easing would come to an end, according to Peers.The below graph compares the returns at various times of crises between the MSCI All Country World Index (ACWI) which capture large- and mid-cap stocks across 23 developed and 23 emerging markets and the US ten-year Government Bond Index.Source: Investec Structural inflation is over and inflation is likely to trend sideways, in which case return of capital is more important than return on capital, Peers has previously told Moneyweb. Over 40 years you could make money [in equities] but then your entry levels, whether you buy at the top or bottom of the market, are very important, and fees will make a big difference, she says.Putting it down to the equity culture dominant in South Africa, Peers says she has been advocating G10 government debt for the past 20 years. Only in the past six months has she started seeing interest from South Africans for actively-managed offshore government debt.The at the very least 50% exposure to bonds in an offshore portfolio could include both government and corporate debt, says Peers, but mainly AAA or AA paper. However, the main portion should be G10 government debt, she maintains.Risk versus returnWhile developed market government bonds offer protection, Paul Bosman, portfolio manager at PSG, counters that it s important to consider what price you are paying for that protection. South African government bonds offer an attractive real yield, bar a very specific South African panic. Even if we were to be downgraded, which we don t think is a done deal, we still think our bonds are attractively priced as compared to junk bonds, Bosman notes.Since there is currently no inflation in developed markets, you re effectively buying government bonds at a negative real yield, he says. At some stage, inflation will come back and you ve then locked in a negative yield, which is expensive protection, he argues.Put differently, if you buy a bond at an inflation rate of 0% with a nominal yield of 1% (i.e. the stated yield offered by the issuer) and the inflation rate then increases to 2%, you will be receiving a real yield of -1%.Roughly 10% of PSG s balanced fund is in bonds, with the majority in a 20-year SA government bond due to the higher yield and lower net exposure to the South African government.Similarly, Prudential Investment Managers prefers longer-dated local bonds, which offer significantly more attractive yields than developed markets despite recent declines.After spiking up to levels of around 9.5% in the immediate aftermath of the shock firing of former finance minister, Nhlanhla Nene in December, South Africa s ten-year government bond yield was trading at levels of around 8.8% on Wednesday afternoon.While developed market government bonds are important high-quality building blocks for South African investors portfolios, David Knee, head of fixed income at Prudential Investment Managers, says that the risk/return trade-off must be considered relative to that offered by the local bond market. Developed market government bonds are offering very low (even negative yields), and have been trading at historically very expensive levels for some time now, as part of the easy monetary policies maintained by central banks. While we do expect developed market government bond yields to eventually move higher, this appears to be taking much longer than we or the markets expected, Knee comments. Many countries are mired in slow growth and are therefore unable to raise interest rates. We have therefore preferred to take our international bond exposure in the form of corporate bonds, both floating and fixed rate. Bosman maintains that any investment needs to deliver a real return commensurate with the risk. So on South African government bonds, sure, they are risky, but at the right price you ve got to look at them.&#8221;