[Apologies for poor line quality]SIKI MGABADELI: July is National Savings Month and we are going to be going to be giving you some tips over the next few weeks on how to make our child a millionaire.It s our second instalment and we welcome back Pieter du Toit, the CEO of FNB Investments. Today we are looking at the family aspect of saving or investing. We still want your tips. We&#8217;ve been getting some. You are free to send those through as well.But let&#8217;s chat to Pieter. Pieter, thanks for your time this evening. You have two beautiful daughters, I understand, so maybe you can share with us your own experiences of teaching them to save, as well as saving for them.PIETER DU TOIT: Thanks, Siki. Yes, I do have two beautiful daughters. I&#8217;ve always wanted for them to go to university, so quite a few years ago we started investing for them in unit trusts, and [I&#8217;ve also associated that with] how they are doing in school. We sat down with them and agreed that each quarter we would look at their report cards and a certain amount of money would be invested for them in unit trusts that will ultimately pay for their university costs. But, based on how they perform at school, there would be different rules for that.So I would invest exactly the same amount each quarter, but if their marks were quite poor, they would have to contribute a significant portion of that from their own money. And even if they [do poorly?] I would pay the whole sum and when they do well I still pay the whole thing but their profit as well.So that keeps them committed and involved and only once did [they] have to pay and that never happened again. And every year there are bonuses. I&#8217;m very happy about that. It s working exactly the way I wanted it to work.SIKI MGABADELI: And what do you think that s taught them about money, about the value of saving? I suppose there are life lessons in there as well.PIETER DU TOIT: Absolutely. So the first point I think is obviously on the financial side, the financial lessons there. Primarily it s to save for a particular goal and then to stick to that goal and to follow through with it.So they ve learnt a lot about different asset classes and different investments. On a regular basis we would discuss the pros and the cons, and the best time to buy unit trusts and the kind of unit trusts I pick for them.In any unit trust you actually own shares in a company, which means you actually own part of a company and there are people going to that company and actually working and you actually participate in the profit and the future growth of the company. So it was very good for me to have those discussions with my children so they begin to understand more and more about it.SIKI MGABADELI: And the life lesson?PIETER DU TOIT: The first one was I wanted them to learn a really positive and important message that if you work hard and you have our society typically rewards you for something like that, and I wanted them to experience that for themselves. So if they got good marks on a regular basis. I think part of that automatically was the discipline, the long-term planning and they could feel the value of long-term dedication and keeping to a [plan] and experiencing compound growth.And for me it was very positive and I hope it was for them as well SIKI MGABADELI: What do you wish, Pieter, that you had been taught about money as a child?PIETER DU TOIT: Siki, I was very fortunate. I had similar experiences, but growing up on a farm it was a little bit different. So my dad for each of his four children, said we&#8217;ll give you a cow, and this cow is yours. You need to pay back this cow. So the first calf of the cow we had to give back to my dad and thereafter, if we made it, the cow would have another calf and then it would become a small herd So in a sense I had a similar experience. And possibly because of the experience I had, I thought it really important to set the same example for my children. Unfortunately I don t get to a farm any more, I live in the city.SIKI MGABADELI: And no cows.PIETER DU TOIT: I went for the next alternative, which is unit trusts.SIKI MGABADELI: Thanks for your time, Pieter du Toit.