HANNA ZIADY: We are picking up now on our savings month series on saving and investment. Over the past two weeks we&#8217;ve looked at how to turn your kids into millionaires by, for example, leading by example and teaching your children about saving towards a goal, among other things.Today we are taking investment tips from you, our listeners, and we are going to ask our guest to assess the tips you have supplied and analyse how good they are. Aneesa Razack, who is head of growth for FNB Investments, joins us on the line now. Aneesa, good evening and welcome.ANEESA RAZACK: Good evening, Hanna. Thank you for having me.HANNA ZIADY: Now Diason Naidoo has provided us with some tips specific to turning your kids into millionaires. He suggests, for one, splitting birthday presents between cash and presents and investing the cash in a tax-free savings account or an ETF or a unit trust. What do you think of that idea of giving your kids an investment as a birthday present?ANEESA RAZACK: Hanna, I think that splitting between cash and actual presents happens naturally. I had my son s first birthday a few months ago and that s what happened. You get grandparents, etc, who give money and you get friends and family who give gifts. So I think for kids you want them to have that little bit of playtime now as well, so you do need that gifting element.But in terms of the money that they get, I think it&#8217;s a fab idea to invest the money. But I also think it s important to teach the child that they are saving for short-term goals and long-term goals alike. So if you just invest it in unit trusts or ETFs, that s more the long-term goal, and I think it s important to show them that if they are saving for something in the long term they need inflation-beating returns.You need to explain that to them in a child-friendly manner, so you need your money to grow faster to be able to buy the same things later on in life. I think also attach the goal onto them, say, if later when you leave varsity you want to buy your own car, or you want to put money down for your first apartment. Do the things that they can psychologically relate to, and then yes, by all means teach them about investing in a unit trust. At FNB we have just launched our new range of of Horizon Series, which are [specifically designed to take the complexity out of investing and offer investors superior fund solutions]&#8230; for the term you are investing for.By the same token it s about saving for the short-term goals, so if you think everything is too far-fetched and the kids are small, they are going to not be as excited about it. So how about a short-term goal like a Lego set in December or the latest thing they want. And then show them to save for these short-term goals. We typically use bank deposits or those type of products, and then help them track it. So show them where you are on track towards that R500 or you are not on track, or you [need] a little more to get there. Teaching them that the difference between long- and short-term goals is exactly the discipline you want to teach them for later on in life because often enough in adulthood you don t get backers, so we invest after the short term and we don t strike that right balance between long and short-term investment. I love the tip that you just add on to it, to teach them the difference between short and long term.HANNA ZIADY: And that will give them a sense, I suppose, of the return on their savings, giving them an idea of what happens when you do save. Diason also advocates monthly allowances be apportioned between an amount to spend and then an amount to save. And I suppose that may speak to your short-term goal. But if you are telling your child that I&#8217;m not going to give you your full pocket money for this month, I&#8217;m going to save some of it for you, I imagine they would want to see the fruit of that saving in the shorter term.ANEESA RAZACK: That s the thing. And I think that s critical the some for now, some for later aspect because we want to teach them the concept of delayed gratification. But obviously if we delay it far too long then we might lose their interest. But teach delayed gratification through the pocket money or whatever. Chores are also an exciting way to get kids to earn money. It s about teaching them the principle of money.I remember clearly when I was little we would sign up for certain things we would do, and then we would earn money based on the chores that we did, be it wash the dishes, make the bed or wash the car every two weeks or whatever. It s also fun and you can say to them, for this you are going to earn R10 and for this you are going to earn R5, and for this you are going to earn R50. And then you see their eyes light up actually I&#8217;m not going to do this, I&#8217;m going to do the car, because the car is going to make me more money. So you teach them the various concepts and you can contract with them in cool, funky ways, create mock pay slips or show them how it s all adding up You know, when we were in our first jobs we learned very quickly that some of our money, at least 15% of our work income, is going to go towards retirement, for example. That s when you pay taxes, etc and you get your net income. So it s about saying to them, this is the amount that you are earning with your chores or your monthly allowance or whatever. Some of that must go away towards some kind of savings So you teach that delayed gratification.Then just to re-iterate, delayed gratification needs to be split between short- and long-term goals as well.HANNA ZIADY: Let&#8217;s move on to another of our listeners, Bawinile Mlangeni, whose tip is somewhat more general, and that is to assign a certain percentage of your monthly income every month to an investment fund running in the long term, and then to increase your contribution towards that fund if your income increases. That requires some discipline. I think, keeping your lifestyle circle closed and trying to put salary increases, income increases into your investments.ANEESA RAZACK: Hanna, I see that Bawinile here was referring to saving for your child s education, so this is more a tip for parents. I like it. I think what I&#8217;d like to add is often we say we are going to put away x% every month but we tend to try and save what&#8217;s left at the end of the month. Very often there is not much left at the end of the month, so my add-on to Bawinile s amazing tip is to say do it at the start rather than at the end.So if you say at the start of the month I&#8217;m going to put away I think a rule of thumb is around 10% that you put away towards saving for your child s education then do that at the start of the month. And there are very easy ways to get that done. At FNB you can set up what we call a scheduled transfer, and I&#8217;m sure with other banks you can do that in an automated way. Life is so busy, especially for parents. I&#8217;m a new parent and I can barely keep up with all the stuff I need to do. So one thing you can tick off your check-list is remembering to save and invest for them. Then it s automated. Do that at the beginning of the month and know that it s going towards their education.Another tip is there are two things you need to think about when you are saving for your child s education, and it s also the short- and long-term aspect of the goals. If your child is in school, then by next year you are going to have to be forking out money for school fees and uniforms, the textbooks or whatever jacket or pencil case and all of that that they need to have. Then you are looking at a short-term saving, and choose the right product for that. So a bank deposit is typically the right type of product for that. But if you are saving for their long-term education needs, whether high school or varsity or just stuff for longer than three years, then you need the right product to beat inflation and that s when ETFs and unit trusts and tax-free savings come in.Tax-free savings are beautiful because all your dividends and your returns are tax-free and the magic of compounding is more phenomenal in those types of products.So just a tip to add on to that, parents choose the right products for the right goal and then set it up at the beginning of the month rather than the end.HANNA ZIADY: Right, we&#8217;ll leave it there. Thanks to Aneesa Razack.