CAPE TOWN The legal dispute between the FSB and its deputy executive officer for retirement funds, Rosemary Hunter, over the cancellation of thousands of pension funds between 2008 and 2013 has grown increasingly acrimonious. Now one of South Africa&#8217;s largest life insurers, Liberty, has been thrust into the centre of the allegations around how the cancellations were handled.The dispute broke into the open in January this year when Hunter filed an application in the North Gauteng High Court seeking to compel the FSB to conduct a thorough investigation of the cancellations project. She claimed that she had been forced to approach the courts after her efforts to have an investigation conducted were continually frustrated.She argued that the cancellation of approximately 4 600 funds was not done legally and that measures should be taken to identify and remedy the prejudice that anybody had suffered as a result.The FSB, its executive officer Dube Tshidi, Hunter&#8217;s predecessor Jurgen Boyd and the Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan, have all opposed Hunter&#8217;s application. Their argument has been that the project was conducted in good faith and that substantial effort was made to ensure that nobody was prejudiced in the process.Last month the FSB&#8217;s chairman, Abel Sithole, filed the final response to Hunter&#8217;s initial application, in which he argued that Hunter&#8217;s complaints about how things were handled are completely unfounded and based on a mistaken conviction that she knows better than anybody else at the FSB how to do their work .This has very much been the tone of the response from the FSB that Hunter is over-reaching, that her claims stem from personal animosity, and that nothing that the regulator did was done in bad faith. The problem of dormant and orphan funds had to be dealt with, and the FSB believes it did so effectively and efficiently.Hunter, however, remains unmoved. In her response to Sithole&#8217;s submission, she insists that the regulator did not take proper care in cancelling the funds and that there is substantial risk that people were prejudiced in the process.She is particularly adamant that it doesn&#8217;t matter whether or not the FSB&#8217;s intentions were pure. What is important is whether the project was handled legally and with the proper diligence: The primary question is not whether or not it was carried out in good faith, she states, but rather whether it was carried out in accordance with the law, and with due regard to the potential prejudice of the members of the public who are the former members of these funds, as well as other creditors of the funds and the funds themselves .Questions around Liberty&#8217;s actionsTogether with her response, Hunter included an affidavit deposed by a former employee of Liberty Life, Michelle Mitchley, who was involved in preparing the financial statements on dormant and orphan funds that were presented to the FSB during the project. Liberty is said to have had more than 80% of the funds in the cancellations pool.Mitchley alleges that as the project unfolded she became: increasingly disturbed by how it was being handled. For example, on several occasions my team and I worked late into the evening and on weekends to prepare financial statements for orphan funds only to find, when we accessed the FSB&#8217;s website, that the registrations of some of the funds had already been cancelled. Furthermore, some of these funds still had assets .Mitchley was also concerned about the close relationship that existed between certain individuals at Liberty, the FSB and the contractor K2B, which had been brought in to deal with the backlog of work relating to terminating funds. These, she felt, compromised the project as K2B was being incentivised to achieve the cancellation of as many funds as quickly as possible. This, she suggests, was linked to a lowering of requirements for the submissions to have funds cancelled.Mitchley raised these concerns with the FSB through its confidential whistle-blowing hotline. However, when the FSB made Liberty aware that someone had called in to raise these concerns, pressure was put on her team to identify who the whistle-blower was. In order to ease the discomfort this was causing, Mitchley says she identified herself.Liberty commissioned KPMG to conduct an investigation into the concerns raised about the project, but its findings did not support Mitchley&#8217;s allegations. She was therefore encouraged by her superiors to apologise for the claims she had made.This, she alleges, was the start of efforts to sideline and victimise her which eventually resulted in her dismissal last month on charges of fraud. She is currently in the process of taking action against Liberty for what she believes to be unfair dismissal.Hunter&#8217;s concernsHunter does not deal with Mitchley&#8217;s affidavit at any length in her own submission, but it is apparent that she believes the latter&#8217;s claims were never properly investigated. Hunter&#8217;s suspicions that there may have been corruption in the process appear to be based to a large extent on Mitchley&#8217;s experience.She has therefore applied to the court to compel the FSB to ensure that all aspects of the cancellations project are properly investigated and that if any anyone was prejudiced that this be remedied. As her contract with the FSB ends on July 31, she also argues that it is important that the court itself should supervise this process to make sure that it happens. It is common cause that my appointment will be terminated (by effluxion of time) even before this application is heard, Hunter notes. In those circumstances, and given the position adopted by the FSB to date, I fear that the FSB will either discontinue or seek to abbreviate its investigations into the conduct of the cancellations project once I am out of the office, irrespective of what the outcome of this application may be. It is for this reason that it is, I submit, crucial, that the Court should insist on a further investigation and reporting concerning these issues, and that it should supervise that process itself. 