Cape Town The rapid depreciation of the rand at the end of last year created a challenge for many asset managers. This is because all Regulation 28 compliant portfolios and funds in any of the South African unit trusts categories are only allowed to invest 25% of their assets offshore.Simply due to currency movements, funds that were already at or near this limit would have been pushed beyond it when the rand fell. Both the Collective Investment Schemes Control Act (CISCA) and Regulation 28 state that when this happens for market movement reasons then you are allowed a period of 12 months to get back in line. This is to ensure that managers don&#8217;t become forced sellers, which could potentially prejudice investors. If our high equity balanced fund had started 2015 with 25% of its portfolio in foreign equities, that would have grown to around 30% by the end of the year, explains deputy MD at Investec Asset Management, Sangeeth Sewnath. So if the manager had done nothing, the fund would be 5% above its limit purely on market movements. We would then be allowed 12 months from the time it breached the limit to bring that back. We would do it in an orderly manner, but we would have to do it. According to the head of personal investments at Coronation Fund Managers, Pieter Koekemoer, this 12 month grace period allows the manager some discretion. You are not allowed to externalise any more assets while you are over the limit, but you are not forced to immediately repatriate assets or hedge out the risk either, Koekemoer says. That basically provides an opportunity for the manager to exercise a tactical decision as to when the appropriate time is to re-balance the portfolio. For many managers the first response would be to do nothing with their offshore assets. As all new inflows would have to be invested locally, this would naturally bring down the offshore exposure in the portfolio as a whole. They would also wait to see what happened with the currency. If the rand were to strengthen again, as it has done over the last month, they wouldn&#8217;t want to have brought back assets unnecessarily.It would only be in situations where new inflows are not sufficient or the currency does not regain enough that managers would then have to consider the repatriation of assets within specific funds.Exchange controlsIn addition to these limits imposed on individual funds, however, there are also exchange control limits that apply to an asset manager&#8217;s entire retail unit trust book. Across their business they are allowed 30% of their assets under management to be held anywhere outside of South Africa, with an additional 5% allowance for investments in the rest of Africa.These are the limits that forced Allan Gray to temporarily close its rand-denominated Orbis feeder funds to new investments twice in 2014, and for Foord to do the same with its offshore feeder funds earlier this year. This is an issue that mostly impacts those managers who do not have large local money market funds that give them a large local asset base.Until recently there had been some conflict between these limits and those governed by CISCA and Regulation 28 as there was no stated grace period for getting back in line. However, in his budget speech earlier this year, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan announced that asset managers that had gone beyond these limits due to currency movements would be given 12 months to comply.This established consistency across the regulations, although in practice this has largely been the way the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) interpreted the exchange control limits anyway. Every quarter as a unit trust manager you submit your offshore holding levels to the SARB and if you have moved beyond the limit, the SARB asks you to explain why and detail how you are going to correct it, says Sewnath. Practically the SARB has been implementing the same 12 month grace period without having it written, so the change is just making this explicit. Acting in investor&#8217;s best interestsThe other challenge that asset managers face is that meeting the legal requirements of these limits may not always be in the best interests of investors. The interesting question the issue raises is what would happen if you have dramatic and consistent depreciation in the value of the rand, where arguably you may end up with tension between the fiduciary responsibility of the trustees and complying with prudential regulations, Koekemoer points out. If you have a dire view of the future exchange rate, you may not want to repatriate within that 12-month window. That is an issue that does deserve further consideration. He says that theoretically it may be possible to apply for exemption from both Regulation 28 and the exchange control regulations, but it has never happened. He also suspects that such an approach would be unlikely to succeed. It would be fascinating to see what response applicants would receive from the pension funds registrar or the SARB, simply because regulatory enforcement tends to follow a rigid interpretation of hard rules rather than judgement-based interpretation, says Koekemoer. The fundamental issue here is that if the regulators accept an argument in favour of additional offshore exposure for one entity, they create a precedent that would have to be followed for others that would very quickly make similar arguments. And that effectively undermines the entire rationale for having exchange controls and prudential limits in the first place. &nbsp;