Investors whose principal aim is slow and steady growth of capital will be satisfied with the results from globally diversified investment fund, Reinet.The company has delivered a compound growth in net asset value (NAV) of 16% per annum, in euro terms, since March 2009, including dividends paid.In the year to March 2016, NAV increased by a more pedestrian 3% to 5.2 billion up from 5.0 billion a year previously. This had the effect of reducing the average compound growth in NAV from 19% at March 2015, to 16% this year.NAV per share rose to 26.65 from 25.91.The growth in NAV was principally affected by increases in the value of Reinet s investments in British American Tobacco and the UK business Pension Insurance Corporation. However, chairman Johann Rupert noted that the weakening of the pound and the US dollar against the euro in the latter part of the year negatively impacted the NAV.Rupert adds that the global economic situation has not improved significantly over the last twelve months. Cash and government bonds attract negative interest rates in Europe and the economic situation in the United States and in China is unsettled. In addition, the geopolitical situation has, if anything, worsened. This calls for prudence. Reinet s goal, he says, is to ensure a pattern of long-term growth in shareholders capital. We will continue to seek investment opportunities where funds can be deployed with a high degree of security and where we believe Reinet can add value. Despite the uncertain economic climate the company has been quite active, closing new investments to the value of 201 million during the year. This is in line with its stated strategy of diversifying its investment portfolio as opportunities present themselves, and over time.However the managers have not veered off into the unknown. During the year Reinet committed $100 million to Snow Phipps III, a US fund investing in the US middle-market private equity space. Reinet has been an investor since 2011 in the predecessor to this fund.Similarly it has continued to make investments in line with its commitments to other investee companies during the year.Also in keeping with its strategy to diversify out of the British American Tobacco position as and when funds are needed, 6.25 million shares were sold during the year.As a result, Reinet s interest in British American Tobacco represented some 67.3% of the net asset value at March 31 2016, compared to 70.5% a year ago.Despite the sale, the value of the remaining holding of 68.1 million shares in British American Tobacco increased in value to 3.5 billion, as at 31 March 2016.The sale of the shares realised 307 million. Of this 177 million is being held to fund a further investment in Pension Corporation.Pension Corporation has raised 250 million to support the continued growth of its business. Of this 140 million will come from Reinet with the balance being raised from Chinese group Legend Holdings, according to the UK s Telegraph newspaper. Pension Corporation has had an excellent year, writing significant new business and insuring a record number of pension fund members, says Rupert. The additional capital will support Pension Corporation and allow it to take advantage of the increasing demand from companies wishing to exit or de-risk their defined contribution pension plans, while remaining fully compliant with its regulatory requirements, which for good reason are increasingly stringent. The company has declared a dividend of 0.161 per share, a 2.5% increase over the dividend paid last year.Reinet&#8217;s locally listed depository receipts rose 1.72% on Wednesday to R34.84. It is up 11.5% in the year to date.