RYK VAN NIEKERK:  On the line is Michael Jordaan. He is the head of Montegray Capital and the former head of First National Bank. Michael, welcome to the show. We’ve seen some political fireworks today with the Hawks serving a summons on Pravin Gordhan, the Minister of Finance. What do you make of today’s developments? MICHAEL JORDAAN:  Well, Ryk, you said it. It seems like political fireworks. On the surface this should be a simple legal matter – did the Minister of Finance commit fraud or not? But as this has long been suspected, and long seen as a political move, possibly it’s one that also precedes a Cabinet reshuffle and is what got everybody going. Of course it’s a matter of great discomfort to markets, to investors, when a minister of finance is formally charged. The market saw a sharp drop off; the currency fell. And unfortunately the impact of all these things is most acutely felt by poor people because this means higher inflation, higher food prices, higher petrol prices, higher interest rates – and it’s exactly the thing that the economy doesn’t need. RYK VAN NIEKERK:  There is a perception in some circles that Pravin Gordhan is the last moral defence in South Africa’s effort to prevent a ratings downgrade, and now he’s been charged with fraud. What do you think are the possible consequences of this action? MICHAEL JORDAAN:  The point that you make – that this might result in a ratings downgrade – I think is the very serious one. Certainly Pravin Gordhan is held in high esteem by the markets, by South Africans. Actually organised business comes to his support. So the fact is that somebody who is such a public figure of trust has been charged with fraud when there are many other blunders that seem fraudulent and that should get a higher priority. One obviously is that the President has over 700 charges of fraud that at some stage need to be prosecuted. But you have a whole plethora of things happening in South Africa from a seriously mismanaged airline to oil that is sold at the lowest point in the market. PetroSA has lost more than R10bn and we are not quite sure why. So if the National Prosecuting Authority was going to do anything, it probably shouldn’t be directed at our Minister of Finance. On top of that, the very action with which he is charged is for letting somebody go on pension and then re-contracting them, which I have to say is a fairly standard practice in business and a fact that Sars themselves even has a practice note guiding this practice. I think the charges are quite weak and will probably fail. The big issue here is whether the charges will just be a pretext for a Cabinet reshuffle. RYK VAN NIEKERK:  What do you think the business sector should do in light of these developments? MICHAEL JORDAAN:  I’m not quite sure, Ryk. I think the business sector at one stage was attacked for being too soft, for not having been a unified front. The last statement was quite a strong statement. It was a letter to the President saying: “Mr President, we stand once more at the edge of the abyss.” It was the strongest language I’ve ever heard for the business [sector]. What I can tell you from days when I was there, when I was a captain of industry – now I am just a humble individual entrepreneur – it was in fact very difficult to get a unitary stance. And, secondly, people didn’t want to seem to conflict with government in public. So the one thing I can say – and it’s a hopeful thing – is that I’m pretty sure that behind the scenes there is a lot happening that we are not hearing about. That typically is more constructive than this putting of criticism into the public arena. That normally has less effect when it comes to politicians. RYK VAN NIEKERK:  Where does this leave South Africa? If we take a helicopter view of what has happened over the past year or so, where does this leave us? MICHAEL JORDAAN:  Ryk, we’ve got such a strange country. I think South Africans are a wonderful people in all our diversity, and I’m in contact with such wonderful South Africans every day who are honest, hard-working people, people who really, really want to make this a better place. But unfortunately it seems that we also have people there, sometimes in high positions, who are not leading us in the way we should be led, not in a future-orientated way and not in a way that, for example, educates more South Africans. So I think these are very, very interesting times. It’s going to be interesting how they play themselves out. I would like to still be on the side of the optimists – and I say that just because I believe in South Africa and I believe in so many South Africans who are well intended and want to see the right things happening in this country. RYK VAN NIEKERK:  Business and investor confidence levels are currently at a record low, and I think the latest developments will only reduce those confidence levels. What do you think the short-term impact will be, and can we bounce back? MICHAEL JORDAAN:  Yes. You see, Ryk, we are quite a resilient bunch. If you think of what South Africa has gone through in the past, it has been much worse. In the bad days of apartheid there were times when civil war seemed imminent. This is not something like that. This is a political battle being fought out. There are different parties and different constituencies in this political battle. So I remain positive that the right thing will happen. Sometimes it takes longer than we want for it to happen. Many ordinary South Africans that I speak to are actually saying that it’s quite good that matters are coming to a head. So this could have taken a much longer time and could have happened more gradually and incrementally. I think this is the beginning of the end and, as I say to you, as bad as it seems, I think we may have a good ending coming out of this. I for one do not believe that a court will find Gordhan guilty of a practice which is quite common practice in business. RYK VAN NIEKERK:  Thank you, Michael. That was Michael Jordaan, the head of Montegray and a former head of First National bank.