NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  As mentioned earlier, the Department of Trade & Industry has issued the National Liquor Amendment Bill for public comment over the next 30 [45] days. The new laws will hold liquor retailers liable for people who commit offences, in unlicensed pubs and shebeens and outside drinking holes, when drunk. Davies said that the unlicensed sellers would also be held liable for similar crimes committed by drunken people both in their places and outside. Joining me on the line is Minister Rob Davies. Of course, you are the Minister of Trade & Industry. We also have Wendy Alberts, the CEO of the Restaurant Association of South Africa, Rasa, joining us on the line. Minister, thank you so much for you time. ROB DAVIES:  Thank you. Pleasure. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  I’m going to start off with you. We talk about alcohol abuse; we talk about underage drinking. Do you see people agreeing to this, and saying that we should be increasing the alcohol consumption age to 21? And also what do you think the response is going to be from some of these retailers who sell alcohol? ROB DAVIES:  Well, I think that we’ve outlined a case which we are saying that alcohol abuse in South Africa is costing the country R37 billion; that nearly half of all admissions to casualty wards are people with higher than the blood alcohol limits allowed for driving; that we have a high number of unnatural deaths from alcohol abuse, and the foetal alcohol syndrome and so on. And we are saying that in South Africa this situation is not getting better with the existing measures. We’ve got to do something much more significant than we’ve been doing up to now. The consultation period is not actually 30 days, it’s 45 days from yesterday. We want to have a serious and considered debate both by people who are in the industry but also by people in communities who are affected by alcohol abuse in this country. I think part of the solution has got to be that we address the liquor licensing procedure in this country and the age limit we are putting forward – and let’s see what the national mood is. We are putting forward evidence which is based on physiological studies telling us that the infant brain is not fully mature until in the twenties, and that the damage from alcohol abuse to a growing brain is greater than that to the grown brain. In jurisdictions where they have raised the drinking age they’ve had a reduction in young people involved in death and accidents from alcohol abuse. And conversely, where one lowered the drinking age there was an increase. So we say, look, here is the case. Let’s discuss it as a country. We are not dogmatically forcing this going forward, but this is what we say on the drinking age. One is the liability. Many countries have liability – the people that supply products – to make sure that they don’t supply in a way that causes harm and damage. We have a series of outlets which are illegal in this country, not licensed. They are not allowed to sell liquor. We know that very large quantities of products from manufacturers and wholesalers find their way there. What we are saying is that those people have an obligation to ensure that their product doesn’t end up there. If somebody’s coming to a wholesaler every week and buying huge quantities and telling you it’s for their private party, you want to start asking a few questions and ask for a liquor licence, if they have a retail liquor licence. If you are not doing that, if you are indifferent to it, and you don’t want to bother about it – and then somebody in an illegal outlet ends up having an accident or causing a murder or something, it’s costing the state and it’s costing the family concerned money and grief – we want to say you will have to show that you took reasonable steps. If you didn’t you are going to be liable for that. And the other one we are saying is a very simple one. You are not at the moment allowed to serve people who are visibly drunk. If you are indifferent to that, you carry on doing that in your licensed or unlicensed premises, and those people go out and they cause an accident or kill somebody and there is death and damage, then we are going to say to you you are going to have to show us that [you applied] the criteria which are laid out for visibly drunk people; you’ve got to refute the fact that those people were in that condition. I think that’s what we are putting down. It’s way of saying that, yes, at the end of the day the laws have to be enforced by the government agencies, and we are going to strengthen that. We are going to have routine surveillance; it’s also going to happen that people have to accept the consequences of their neglect if that is the case. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  Minister, I want to bring in Wendy Alberts. Wendy, you’ve listened to the minister. He has outlined all of these points. What are your thoughts? WENDY ALBERTS:  Good evening, how are you all?  There are five major aspects on the new proposed policy that need to be considered that are going to have legal effects on the industry. The [first] point is obviously the liability on suppliers, that that will be liable for the actions of the customers if they are over the legal limit, or the restaurateurs if they are delivering alcohol to somebody who has exceeded the limit. The second aspect that is obviously an issue for us is the 500-metre rule, whereby a business will not be able to sell liquor within a 500-metre radius of a comprehensive list of suburban places, which will almost eliminate most of the establishments from actually having licences, essentially closing most of those establishments. The third factor that is a major concern is obviously a raise in the drinking age from 18 to 21. The fourth element for us is obviously restricting trading hours and introducing onerous zoning requirements which will severely impact especially the township liquor trade. And the fifth impact is obviously the banning of manufacturers’ sponsorship and restricting further advertising, further marketing of more alcohol possibilities. If you look at a number of these factors, obviously the one of raising the age is a concern. It’s only going to push underage binge drinking into less controlled environments, which is going to lead to more severe health and [indistinct] behaviours among young adults. It’s going to expose them to a whole dark underground place and take them into environments where they would not be surrounded by those who go there and set a good example to young people. And it denies these kids a proper place for safety or being set a good example for drinking. It boils down to education, which needs to be demonstrated throughout the time – especially with alcohol where there is enormous responsibility. On responsible advertising, it does certainly educate the public on drinking, on different alcohol syndromes, where to go to, etc. We look at that obviously as a major concern. As far as the restricted advertising and marketing, it removes the fundamental rights of the consumer to have access to information, to know what is available, to know what products are available, to know about the impact, pricing, promotions. And it takes their right away to make informed decisions as adults. We move on obviously to the proposal to put the onus on the restaurateur or the suppliers for irresponsible drinking. What happens if they go and get in their car and they drink a bottle of vodka or brandy and they leave that establishment? There is no control on many of these elements. Again, restricting the trading hours doesn’t reduce drinking. It just moves the drinking to an underground place, back into the black market, the underground market. It’s a very dangerous area, again, for all types of people. We’ve seen this with illegal gambling, we’ve seen it with underground gambling. I don’t think this is necessarily the way to move forward. Raising the drinking age, again, is just going to teach young people to drink illicitly in more dangerous places. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  Wendy, I’m sorry that I have to cut you there. We are running out of time. There is an extensive period ahead for people to comment. It is open to the public. We are going to have to find some sort of middle ground that works both for your team and your members in the sense that we don’t lose the business that’s happening in the restaurant sector and the liquor sector as well. But at the same time we are also dealing with Minister Rob Davies’s issues around the abuse of alcohol consumption. Minister, thank you so much for your time and of course that of Wendy Alberts, the CEO of the Restaurant Association of South Africa. This is definitely a conversation that we need to be having extensively and we will be keeping in touch in terms of what the public is saying at the end of the term, just to see what kind of middle ground both the minister and people who are in the industry have found.