Nobel Laureate Robert Engle ranks the systemic risk contributions of two large South African banks higher than that of Deutsche Bank, the riskiest bank in Europe. The potential collapse of Germany’s biggest bank, which is facing a $14 billion fine for mis-selling mortgage securities in the United States ahead of the 2008 global financial crisis, has raised questions over its systemic implications as it may result in contagion in the global financial markets. A monthly analysis by Engle and the Volatility Institute at New York University’s Stern School of Business ranks the systemic risk contribution (SRISK%) of a number of South African banks and financial services companies higher than the riskiest European banks.   Africa Europe Rank Bank SRISK % SRISK ($ billion) Bank SRISK % SRISK ($ billion) 1 Standard Bank 34.72 1.98 Deutsche Bank 8.45 99.4 2 MMI Holdings 16.91 0.96 BNP Paribas 7.97 93.7 3 FBN Holdings (Nigeria) 15.47 0.88 Société Générale 6.12 72 4 Liberty Holdings 15.24 0.87 Barclays 5.75 67.6 5 Nedbank 12.96 0.74 Royal Bank of Scotland 4.12 48.5 6 Barclays Africa Group 4.7 0.27 Banco Santander 3.94 46.4 Source: The Volatility Institute, NYU Stern  In spite of the higher systemic risk contribution percentage assigned to Standard Bank and Nedbank, their potential capital shortfall is significantly lower than that of their European peers. As such, analysts say the systemic risk posed by domestic banks is generally lower than that of the European banks. “The perceived risks of South African banks appear higher because the big four banks own a large share of the market. However, the South African banking sector is well regulated and the South African banks are well capitalised, [have] improved liquidity for times of stress, and [have] no big derivatives exposures like Deutsche Bank,” said Neelash Hansjee, a banking analyst at Old Mutual Equities. The Volatility Institute puts the systemic risk of FirstRand, one of the big four banks referred to by Hansjee, at 0% with a negative potential capital shortfall of R3.1 billion. According to Adrian Cloete, a portfolio manager at PSG Wealth, local banks are better capitalised than almost all of their European peers. “South African banks have common equity Tier 1 (CET 1) ratios that range from 11.0% to 14.4% which are well in excess of [the] South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) 2015 minimum requirement of 6.5%. SA Banks are also much more conservative when calculating risk-weighted assets in the capital calculation for Basel III so their leverage ratios of around 6.5% are also way above the Sarb’s required 4% and the global requirement of 3%,” he said. Cloete also highlighted the resilience of local banks relative to their European peers during the global financial crisis. He said South African bank earnings fell by 20% and 30% compared with the collapse of earnings, losses and subsequent capital raisings needed in Europe. “South African banks are also much better positioned now as CET1 capital ratios are 40% higher. Banks have been cautious on advances growth, [they] have increased bad debt provision coverage, defaulted advances are much lower, [they] are much more liquid, have much stronger funding profiles and their earnings are well diversified,” he said. As such, Cloete said the spill over from any European contagion will mostly affect investor sentiment rather than impact the fundamentals of domestic banks. Hansjee agreed, adding that history shows that the Sarb takes a view of systemic risk and is willing to step in if necessary, as it did with African Bank. “The big risk[s] that South African banks are facing are political and economic risks. But this is more about investor confidence in the economy and the banking sector rather than the stability of the banking system,” he said.