Interim results for the PSG Group for the period ending August 31 2016 were robust, with recurring headline earnings per share (Heps) having increased by 16% against the prior year’s comparable six-month period. In addition to the earnings growth, investors searching for yield would be pleased with the 25% increase in the interim gross dividend, at 125 cents. While the results looked good, they were not completely unexpected as the company’s listed holdings has already released results. The sum of the parts (SOTP) valuation as of August 31 2016 is considered at R228.32, making the PSG Group’s current pricing a discount of between 10% and 11% to this valuation. A breakdown of the company’s SOTP is illustrated in the chart below:  Source: IG  Capitec Holdings which makes up nearly 50% of the group parts valuation has seen headline earnings grow by around 20% (in the last interim period), with over 100 000 clients being added a month to highlight the group’s disruptive nature in the local banking industry. Furthermore, Capitec is looking to launch its new credit card offering very soon. It may be argued that Capitec is trading at a price to earnings (P/E) premium in the current market environment, with a forward P/E of around 22, although earnings growth is managing to keep up with the current pricing of the share. Curro is the next biggest part in the PSG valuation. Trading on a P/E of 132 this part of the business does seem expensive, despite earnings growth of 51% in the last interim period. Growth is however anticipated to be exponential going forward, as the group moves towards its goal of having 200 schools and 80 campuses by the year 2020. The PSG Group has also highlighted a renewed focus on private university education being fast tracked in lieu of the current uncertainty in the tertiary education space. The Zeder holdings part of the PSG stable is largely a reflection of the Pioneer Foods business, in which Zeder has a 27% interest. This part of the business is underperforming due to the current drought situation in South Africa, which has in part equated to a 3% fall in recurring Heps. The wealth management business PSG Konsult has managed to produce double-digit growth (13%) in its Heps. While the PSG results look good at face value, market participants will need to assess whether the group’s sum of its parts are fairly valued, relative to their respective expectations for earnings growth. The PSG Group’s holdings have historically performed well, however another area of concern would be the large weighting of Capitec Holdings in the parts valuation. While Capitec is the fastest-growing bank in South Africa, it does pose a risk in banking sector sympathy, should a sovereign ratings downgrade occur. Ratings agencies are set to review the country’s debt rating in early December. The recent summons of finance minister Pravin Gordhan to court for possible fraud charges bears witness to banks being particularly vulnerability to matters affecting National Treasury. Shaun Murison is a senior market analyst at IG South Africa