The rubber has finally hit the road. South African tax collections, which have remained miraculously buoyant through the recession, will fall R23 billion short of projections in the current financial year, R36 billion in 2017/18 and R52 billion 2018/19.Buoyant tax collections since the financial crisis have been brought about by better than average wage increases, continued household expenditure, high levels of domestic imports and asset price inflation. But eventually South Africa s anaemic economic growth, caused by low global growth and exacerbated by internal policy flip-flops, regulatory uncertainty and a lack of business confidence had to reflect in tax collections.GDP growth is not around the corner to change this picture. National Treasury has repeatedly revised growth projections downwards. GDP growth for 2016 has been revised down to 0.5% from an initial 0.9% and Treasury predicts it will rise to 1.3% in 2017, 2% in 2018 and 2.2% in 2019.This is below the level necessary to sustain or reduce South Africa s debt levels. Treasury warns that it will be impossible to sustain a stable debt path, at the current level of spending, if economic growth remains below 2% over the long term. It is essential that economic growth returns to its historic average of 3%.As a result of the slower economic growth and the decline in tax revenue Treasury has extended its target for the stabilisation of government debt. Net debt to GDP is now projected to stabilise at 47.9% of GDP in 2019/20, a year later and 1.3% higher than was originally forecast. The stabilization of net debt has been pushed out every year for the past seven years.The budget deficit, which is equivalent to government s borrowing requirement, will stabilize at 3.2% of GDP over the next three years. Treasury points out that the deficit continues to narrow, and that the deficit excluding interest payments known as the primary balance continues to narrow. According to Treasury next year a primary surplus will be achieved this means that government can meet its non-interest spending commitments without additional borrowing. However the bottom line is that a deficit that is higher than the growth rate will, over time, mean that the debt burden of government will rise.Treasury has introduced a new phrase to its lexicon: measured consolidation. This means balancing the necessary contraction in expenditure with a continued focus on capital investment, all the while stabilizing national debt as a share of GDP.Some would argue that this means it is business as usual that we are not seeing the necessary expenditure cuts to prevent the country from heading down a slippery slope to indebtedness. Others will argue that Treasury has resisted calls by some in the ANC to adjust the fiscal framework to accommodate populist internal ANC pressures, post the municipal government elections. We have decided on a measured and balanced approach to fiscal consolidation, Gordhan told media ahead of his budget address to parliament. We cannot afford old levels of expenditure while our economy is not growing. We have to keep an eye on the deficit numbers, which I think are credible, and on debt but we must do this in a way in which we do not kill off the green shoots of growth. However he added, fiscal policy and measures are NOT enough to place our economic growth on different trajectory. There is a lot that government is doing. But there is more we can do. We must implement the nine-point plan in a way that it makes changes in the real economy. The structural reform package that we are all aware is necessary and must be done. How soon can Minister Zwane get the mineral resources bill through? How soon will Minister Cwele provide us with clarity on digital migration? How can we round up the processes that deputy president Ramaphosa has been leading? On that front I believe he will deliver a package of labour reforms well before Christmas and properly gift wrapped. The minister went on to stress, as he did repeatedly, that driving inclusive growth in South Africa is not a job for one stakeholder. It s about building consensus and creating platforms where exchanges can take place and where strong civil society voices can be heard and harnessed in order to make South Africa better. We have a credible fiscal framework that can sustain us into the future. Growth, inclusive growth is key, but we need create the right conditions for that growth. 