The Gupta family had a lawyer’s letter hand-delivered to Public Protector Thuli Madonsela on Tuesday, accusing her of acting in bad faith and threatening to hold her personally liable for damages they may suffer as a result of her findings following her investigation into state-capture. Read the letter here: This follows a day after President Jacob Zuma issued a statement about a letter he addressed to Madonsela, in which he claimed a right as an implicated person to question her witnesses and see documents supporting testimony against him. He also asked for an undertaking from her, by close of business on Tuesday, that she won’t conclude the investigation or issue “any report” in this regard. Madonsela later responded on Twitter by outlining her efforts to get Zuma to answer her questions, which he failed to do. The investigation focuses on improper and unethical conduct by Zuma and state officials regarding their alleged inappropriate relationship with the Gupta family. It stems largely from a claim by deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas that he was offered the job of finance minister shortly before Zuma fired former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene in December and appointed then little-known Des van Rooyen, sending the markets in a tailspin. Attorney Gert van der Merwe on Tuesday afternoon issued a statement on behalf of the Gupta family with a copy of the letter, which was sent under his signature, attached. In the letter Van der Merwe says his clients considered interdicting her from issuing her report on Friday, her last day in office, but since it is unclear which adverse findings she might make, and in an effort to avoid a further “media hype” around perceived efforts to threaten or intimidate her, he advised them to rather wait until the report has been released. Van der Merwe accuses Madonsela of sidelining the Gupta family and witnesses who support them in her investigation. “We are aware of the fact that you chose not to subpoena anyone of the three Gupta brothers to give evidence despite the fact that you intend to conclude a report which will in all likelihood have severe conclusions contained therein.” He said during Ajay Gupta’s evidence before her on October 4 she was “agitated and irritated with our client” and had her eye on the clock to ensure that she would be in time for a press conference scheduled at 14:00 that day. He accuses her of flouting procedure, failure to provide him with transcripts and to give him access to witnesses in the investigation. Van der Merwe said Madonsela clearly had a pre-determined view and her gathering of evidence was mere window dressing. He warns her that if she in her report on Friday “choose[s] to conclude that my clients were in any way whatsoever involved in inappropriate conduct under circumstances where we have tendered evidence to the contrary and under circumstances where we have a clear right to contradict the evidence you have gathered you do so at your own peril and at your own risk.” (His emphasis.) He then points her to the Public Protector Act which indemnifies members of her office against liability for their findings, permitted they act in good faith. Van der Merwe concludes that “a forced report with adverse conclusions under these circumstances” will not be in good faith. “It will, on the contrary, be an effort to force your views and it is obvious that you show distrust in your successor under these circumstances. It begs the question whether you leave a well-respected office with ill-intent and with a last punch at your rival (in my view), the President.”