Crude dropped as the dollar strengthened against its peers and analysts predicted weekly government data will show that US supplies rose.Futures fell as much as 1.5% in New York. Prices retreated as the dollar reached its strongest since March against the euro amid increasing bets that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates by year-end. A stronger greenback curbs the appeal of commodities denominated in the US currency to investors. Crude stockpiles probably climbed 1.75 million barrels last week, a Bloomberg survey showed before Energy Information Administration data Wednesday.Oil has fluctuated near $50 a barrel amid uncertainty about whether the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries can implement an accord to cut output when its members gather at an official meeting in November. A committee will meet this week to try to resolve differences over how much individual members should pump. Last month s OPEC deal pushed prices higher, bringing some drilling back in the US, which has in turn prevented crude from making new highs.&#8220;Oil was moving higher until the dollar started to strengthen,&#8221; said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. &#8220;Inventories probably rose last week. They may sling-shot higher after the big drop in imports the previous week.&#8221;West Texas Intermediate for December delivery slipped 60 cents, or 1.2%, to $49.92 a barrel at 11:13 a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices climbed as much as 0.8% to $50.93 in early trading. Total volume traded was 14% below the 100-day average.Brent for December settlement dropped 77 cents, or 1.5%, to $50.69 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, trading at a 77-cent premium to WTI. US, stockpiles US crude supplies dropped to 468.7 million barrels in the week ended October 14, the lowest since January, according to EIA data. Inventories have declined in six of the past seven weekly reports.&#8220;The most important dynamic that s been a surprise is the drop in US supplies,&#8221; said Jay Hatfield, the New York-based portfolio manager of the InfraCap MLP ETF with $120-million in assets. &#8220;The OPEC agreement brought the rally forward by a few months. It was going to happen early next year because of supply and demand.&#8221;OPEC s secretary-general was due to visit Baghdad for talks aimed at resolving disputes on output after Iraq said it should be exempt from planned cuts. Mohammed Barkindo will meet the country s prime minister and oil minister, according to people familiar with the matter, after OPEC s second-biggest producer said Sunday it should be excluded due to conflict with Islamic militants.Actual output Iraq could accept a decision to freeze output based on an actual production level of more than 4.7 million barrels a day rather than the lower figure OPEC uses from secondary sources, Oil Ministry spokesman Asim Jihad said Tuesday. The organization pegs Iraqi production at less than 4.2 million barrels a day.&#8220;OPEC is not a well-oiled machine when it comes to implementing cuts,&#8221; Hatfield said. &#8220;Their credibility is low and deeply divided politically.&#8221; The 14-member group is also hoping Russia, the world s biggest oil producer, joins in. The country is making progress toward an output agreement with OPEC, Energy Minister Alexander Novak said Monday after talks with officials from the group in Vienna. The discussions addressed concrete production levels, he said, declining to elaborate.Oil-market newsNigerian militants have attacked Chevron Corp. s Escravos pipeline, according to Niger Delta Avengers spokesman Mudoch Agbinibo said in a Twitter post. Chevron s Houston-based spokeswoman Isabel Ordonez declined to comment. A key pipeline capable of carrying 400,000 barrels a day of crude to the Texas Gulf Coast from the largest US storage hub at Cushing, Oklahoma, was shut after a spill late Sunday. 2016 Bloomberg L.P