Increasing regulatory and compliance requirements for banks around the world are having a negative impact on small and medium sized enterprises’ (SME) ability to access funds, a new report shows. The International Chamber of Commerce’s (ICC) latest Global Trade and Finance Survey reveals that 58% of all trade finance proposals made by SMEs in 2015 were rejected, up from 53% a year earlier. In contrast, the rejection rates for large corporates and multinational corporations were significantly lower. Proposed and rejected transactions by client segment  Regionally, the rate of rejections versus proposals was highest across emerging markets, with sub-Saharan Africa registering a rejection rate of 10.3% compared with a proposal rate of 6.4%. Proposed and rejected transactions by region  “SMEs in developing countries are the most affected. The estimated value of unmet demand was $120 billion in Africa and $700 [billion] in developing Asia,” said Marc Auboin, counsellor for trade and Finance at the World Trade Organisation. Citing data from the Asian Development Bank, he said the total value of unmet demand is close to $1.4 trillion. According to the ICC, the 357 respondents polled from 109 countries, reflected concerns that regulatory requirements impedes banks from meeting market demand for trade finance. The percentage of respondents flagging costly and complex anti-financial crimes compliance regulations – such as those relating to anti-money laundering and know your customer – as a barrier to providing trade finance increased from 81% to 90%. “This year’s survey highlights the challenges ahead, revealing that compliance is one of the main impediments to trade finance provision – with the majority of industry players only expecting complexity and cost to increase further over the rest of the year,” said Daniel Schmand, Chair of the ICC Banking Commission. Impediments to trade finance  The impact of compliance measures was reported to be highest sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and North Africa as well as in Russia and in the Commonwealth of Independent States, a region comprising former Soviet Union member states. In addition, 75% of respondents said that SMEs were the most negatively affected client group. A further 65% of respondents labelled differing legal and regulatory requirements across jurisdictions challenge, with this lack of harmonisation also cited as a factor that increases the cost and complexity of compliance. Moreover, 83% of respondents expect the regulatory burden to increase throughout 2016. It also found that the nature of most banking institutions, which see SMEs as high-risk or high-cost due to their lack of accounting records and financial statements, and collateral in the form of inventory and moveable commodities rather than land or real estate, mismatches the informal practices of most SMEs. “This “collateral gap” also plays into loan scale mismatch, in which SMEs are hit particularly hard. SMEs are often too small for the large loans provided by formal banks, and too [large] to be served by microfinance institutions,” the International Trade Centre (ITC) said in its contribution to the report. In addition, it found that 20% of SMEs are “adequately served” by top banks in non-OECD countries, compared with as little as 5% in sub-Saharan Africa. Despite the higher perceived risk of providing trade finance to companies operating in Africa, the risk profile of trade finance activities provided by African banks is more favourable than that of traditional bank lending. “The average non-performing loan (NPLs) for trade finance portfolio in Africa is just 4%, which is lower than the NPL of 9% for traditional bank assets, but higher than the NPL of 1% for trade finance activities by banks outside Africa,” the organisation said.  It added that the default rate of 6.3% in West Africa is the highest among all sub-regions, while Southern Africa’s 1.1% default rate is lowest.