SIKI MGABADELI: We are looking at the state of the South African economy and we ask if there is some respite. We face low to no growth this year, we&#8217;ve seen multiple downward revisions from multiple institutions, including our own Reserve Bank. Consumers are feeling the pinch and curbing spending. Companies are not investing in a climate of uncertainty. So where to from here?We asked Ludovic Subran, who is chief economist at Euler Hermes Group. I asked him what he makes of current developments in South Africa.LUDOVIC SUBRAN: When you are like South Africa, a country that has grown through globalisation, you are under scrutiny of whatever the investors, the commenters and basically the rest of the world is thinking of you. And then this is true that the low political noise has actually frightened what has disappointed some of the investors.But I think as you rightly said in your introduction, the biggest problem of South Africa today is its ailing consumer, the fact that today there will be barely no growth, and that it is because of there is defiance.[?] The rand depreciation and the losses in purchasing power just means that South Africa is feeling the pain.And so the big question will be whether there is at one point a little bit more forward visibility for families and companies to invest in South Africa. Families and companies here, but also companies from abroad, which I think is what we are mostly interested in you know, at Euler Hermes which is the risk and the opportunities that South Africa offers for global companies, and then the risk for South African companies themselves.So it&#8217;s an interesting time. That s the best I can say.SIKI MGABADELI: Not too long from now we are going to have our Minister of Finance delivering the medium-term budget. It gives us a sense of the planning for the next couple of years. But I just wonder how much room he has to manoeuvre on the fiscal side, given that we have all of these spending priorities on the one hand, but also the need for fiscal prudence on the other.LUDOVIC SUBRAN: Well, South Africa has been running a fiscal deficit of almost 4%, which means that yes, there is a need of the rest of the world to finance part of South Africa s growth. And it&#8217;s also what we are seeing in what is called the current account deficit. So basically the trade balance of South Africa where, indeed, again, South Africa is running a deficit. So it is a lot about the confidence that this budget can put on the table for South Africa and for others alike, which is basically the following.Look, we can continue to run a deficit. I&#8217;m from France. We&#8217;ve been running deficits for 25 years. But it&#8217;s really about the potential growth behind the deficits. People will continue to lend to South Africa, companies will continue to invest, even if there is a deficit, as long as there are growth prospects that are positive. And I think this is really what this budget will be about. It will be about a selective when there will be some austerity measures on some other aspects of the economy, I suppose, to tighten the belt a little bit. And it will be the sincerity and the rigor with which this budget has been prepared that will be assessed by South African companies and foreign investors alike.SIKI MGABADELI: You talked about the rand, but I want to talk a little about commodities, because we have really been hit quite a bit by the slowdown in China that s hit our exports. And you can see that in the performance of our mining industry as well. Where do you see China s own economic restructuring going, and what is it going to mean for countries like ourselves?LUDOVIC SUBRAN: Well, I think very interestingly that China is indeed in a very bumpy transition. China did this industrial revolution in 15 years, and basically since 2010 everything has been accelerated, including the indebtedness of companies and of households. So going forward China will not be this export hold for South African commodity exporters that it used to be. And since China has been faced with many economic woes, it has had an impact on South Africa, and exports have an impact on the South African economy.Going forward, I think the Chinese consumer is strong. I think there is a lot of saving in the economy that can be put into contributing to growth and financing the growth in China. And there again, they have to spur confidence for the Chinese themselves to contribute to the growth.Going forward for the commodity market, what does it mean? It means that yes, there are over-capacities and I think they are being absorbed as we speak, but so slowly that prices do not actually show any type of major increase. We see especially the metal commodities, oil, but also to some extent the agricultural commodities if we withstand the drought effect. There is indeed this idea that we&#8217;ve been maybe pumping too much commodities into the Chinese vortex and now this vortex is not absorbing any more.Does it mean that commodities is a game that has to come to an end? I don t think so. I think, again, China has 1.6 billion people that are supposed to consume. There are other areas of the world that will also be consuming commodities, so Europe that is a bit stronger, but also the West of Asia, South-East Asia, countries like Vietnam, India, and South Asia, Philippines. And I think it will be about finding the new trade routes to offset the lesser demand from China till China meets again the expectations in terms of exports.So it will be a long road for commodity exporters, but I think we hit a low earlier this year and that going forward in terms of prices at least we see a stabilisation and therefore a stabilising impact when it comes to the South African economy.SIKI MGABADELI: That s Ludovic Subra, the chief economic and director for economic research at Euler Hermes.