Confidence in the financial sector has fallen to its lowest level in almost seven years, led by steep declines in investment banking and life insurance confidence. The EY Financial Sector Confidence Index, based on a survey conducted and processed by the Bureau of Economic Research at Stellenbosch University, fell to 49 index points in the third quarter from 59 index points previously. The last time confidence in the sector fell below 50 index points was between the fourth quarter of 2008 and the second quarter of 2009. Confidence in investment banking, which fell from 61 to 40, was the main drag on the index. According to EY, the survey also found that investment banks suffered the sharpest contraction in business volumes in five years and a second consecutive quarter of falling profits. Life insurance confidence fell from 79 to 55, while asset management confidence dipped from 40 to 39. Only retail banking registered an increase in confidence, from 55 in the second quarter to 63 in the third quarter. Despite rising credit impairments, the retail banks showed a “noticeable recovery in income following a very weak first half,” EY said. Overall banking confidence fell to 52, down from 58 in the second quarter. The long-term average banking confidence level is at 72 index points. According to Andy Bates, financial services Africa leader at EY, South African banks benefited from strong local growth before the financial crisis. “Post those strong growth years, bank confidence has averaged 58 index points. That means just short of six of every ten banks have been satisfied with conditions since then. Banks reporting high confidence through these times are likely to be the ones that are driving competitor advantage and continuing to find growth in these trying circumstances,” said Bates. “Not only are banks finding it difficult to identify suitable credit lending opportunities, but they are facing slowing credit advances at the same time that bad debts are rising. This is typically the pattern facing banks during weak growth periods. Up until now, South African banks have largely been shielded from a worsening impairment cycle, but the recent reporting season indicates that this has now changed for the worse,” he said of current conditions. While conditions for South African banks remain tough, an uplift in recent economic metrics may lift long-term growth prospects, he said.