The retirement system in South Africa is dominated by defined contribution provision. At retirement, individuals must convert their accumulated savings into income.The optimal strategy for retirees with no bequest motive is to completely annuitise their accumulated retirement capital in other words, to secure a guaranteed income for life using life annuities.A survey conducted by Just Retirement South Africa in 2016 revealed that 86% of people surveyed, between the ages of 55 and 85, preferred a guaranteed income for life in retirement. The 2015 Sanlam Benchmark survey showed a similar result, with 87% of people surveyed wanting certainty of income for life. But Association for Savings &amp; Investment SA (ASISA) statistics reveal that 90% of 2015 annuity sales were of living annuities, which provide no explicit longevity protection.This observation has become known across the world as the annuity puzzle .It can be explained by recognising that in the real world people do not make decisions by taking into account all costs and benefits. Instead, people are influenced by psychological factors and what s considered socially acceptable or popular, and their preferences depend on how information and choices are presented to them.The World Development Report (2015), Mind, Society and Behaviour , summarises hundreds of studies and behavioural finance research into one framework. The framework rests on three principles of human decision-making: thinking socially, thinking with mental models and thinking automatically.These factors help to explain why South Africans currently convert their savings into income using living annuities:&nbsp;As such, the truth is that the local industry is currently more geared and structured towards advising an individual on the most optimal living annuity investment, rather than on the most optimal overall strategy (which could include life annuities as a portion of, or the entire, strategy). There are limited examples of individuals being advised to secure a guaranteed income for life, or on strategies to fully annuitise.One of the solutions National Treasury put forward was for retirement funds to adopt default annuity strategies. Many retirement funds, especially umbrella funds, have started adopting default annuity strategies by making arrangements available for individuals to retire within the fund. It s been shown that introducing defaults in other areas of finance can improve the ultimate decision making by individuals. It s anticipated that default annuity strategies would be similarly successful.In the financial planning industry, advisors can assist to improve their clients decisions on how to convert savings into an income at retirement. They can do so by introducing a consumption framing approach, whereby appropriate mental models are created to enable an individual to trade-off between the main objectives at retirement (e.g. providing for lifetime spending needs and liquidity or an inheritance). Based on an individual&#8217;s circumstances, including their main retirement objectives, the most optimal investment strategy at retirement can be recommended. This includes the proportions between living annuities and life annuities and the asset allocation for the living annuity component.All these interventions capitalise on behavioural finance techniques; it is believed that by making use of these techniques, individuals decisions about how to convert accumulated savings into an income can be improved, ultimately leading to pensioners securing more sustainable incomes into retirement.References:Just Retirement SurveySanlam SurveyWorld Bank ReportUS Research on framing of annuitiesNetherlands research on framing of annuities&nbsp;This article was sponsored by Sygnia.