CAPE TOWN Over the last few years, South African investors have grown increasingly aware of the benefits of investing offshore. Diversifying away from local risks, and gaining exposure to different markets and income streams has become an integral part of any investment plan.To a large extent however, this has focused primarily on foreign equity. Investors appreciate that there are some great companies listed elsewhere in the world that they would like to invest in because they are familiar with their products. Gaining exposure to the likes of Apple, Coca-Cola or BMW makes perfect sense.It is, however, less obvious for investors to want to put money into Simon Property Group, Sun Hung Kai Properties, or Public Storage. Although these are some of the largest real estate investment trusts (Reits) in the world, they are far from household names.However, product strategist in BlackRock s global real estate securities group, Steve Ralff, says that investors who understand the benefits of looking offshore when it comes to equities should be thinking about the same things when it comes to listed property. People invest in global equities without any concern and treat it as a must-have, he says. The same for global fixed income. But when it comes to property, they do mostly local and direct. For some reason there is a need to touch and feel property. But if you ask [about] the benefits to broad global investing, they are no different in real estate, Ralff says. It&#8217;s about getting access to the trophy assets on a global scale. A maturing marketWhat makes this argument particularly compelling from a South African perspective is that over the last decade, local investors have come to appreciate what listed real estate can offer. The sector has out-performed all other asset classes over this period.What most don&#8217;t know, however, is that this isn&#8217;t only a local phenomenon. It&#8217;s not just the South African real estate sector that&#8217;s done really well, but the entire global real estate securities sector has done very well, says BlackRock&#8217;s co-global CIO for real estate securities James Wilkinson. It&#8217;s outperformed many traditional sectors over quite a long period of time. The sustained growth enjoyed by the sector has also seen it mature and become more investable. It is becoming less alternative, and more mainstream. The listed real estate market has developed, and institutionalised very significantly over the last 20 years, Wilkinson says. The penetration of listed real estate with investors has also grown hugely. He points out that the total market capitalisation of all listed real estate securities globally has more or less tripled over the last decade. The sector is now worth over $3 trillion. That&#8217;s a huge advancement in the opportunity set and the size of the market, Wilkinson says. I&#8217;m not going to predict that it will triple again, but we are continuing to see further development and further growth. We are seeing more countries adding Reit structures to their legislation and we are seeing investors increasingly becoming comfortable with real estate securities as an avenue to real estate returns. What the market is coming to understand is that while prices in listed real estate can be quite volatile in the short term, over time their performance reflects the fundamentals of physical property. In the long term the correlation between direct market, physical property returns and listed returns is very high, says Wilkinson. So for investors who want to attain a real estate return over the long term, then our view is that listed real estate is a very appropriate way to achieve that. Why global? South African investors might argue that they can achieve this through the local listed property sector, which has given them such good returns. However, Wilkinson argues that it makes sense to see the bigger picture. There are some great home-grown South African real estate businesses, he says. There are some high quality management teams and some great properties in this country. But to be honest, we see such a range of opportunities out there globally that we believe investors can generate better returns and lower risk returns by looking internationally as well. Rallf adds that the listed global real estate universe offers certain exposures that you can&#8217;t get locally. If you&#8217;re a South African investor just investing in local markets, you&#8217;re heavily exposed to the likes of big food groups and retailers, Ralff says. You have no access to sectors like healthcare, student housing or hotels. In other markets, however, there are management companies that have specialised in these areas and it is only by looking outside of the country that local investors can find them. You can now be very specific about where you invest, such as Japanese healthcare, or student housing in the UK, Ralff says. The benefit is that you get big diversification benefits with uncorrelated income streams across markets and between the sectors. 