CAPE TOWN In South Africa, estate duty is currently set at 20%. In other words, when anyone dies, the revenue service is due 20% of whatever assets they leave behind.There are, however, two important exceptions. The first is that the first R3.5 million in an estate attracts no tax. Only amounts above that attract estate duty.The second is that any bequests to a surviving spouse or public benefit organisation will not be taxed. This is part of why it&#8217;s so important to make out a will. Anything left explicitly to one&#8217;s wife or husband will not be dutiable.Many South Africans are also under the impression that payouts from life policies will not form part of the estate for tax purposes. This is, however, a broad misconception.Firstly, if a life policy has no nominated beneficiaries, it will automatically be paid into the estate. This not only means that it will be taxed, but that it will also attract executor&#8217;s fees. This is therefore not an advisable approach. Whenever a life policy is taken out it should have specified beneficiaries, and any existing policies should also be checked to make sure that one or more beneficiaries have been nominated and that their details are correct.However, even when beneficiaries are nominated, a life policy will not automatically be exempt from estate duties. An estate for the purposes of the Estate Duty Act consists of &#8216;property&#8217; and property &#8216;deemed to be property&#8217;, explains Jenny Gordon, the head of legal enablement at Alexander Forbes. Deemed property is property which does not necessarily exist in the estate before death, but is deemed to be estate dutiable regardless. This includes amounts paid out by life policies. Where a life insurance policy qualifies as deemed property it will be subject to estate duty at a rate of 20%, regardless of whether such proceeds are payable directly to the nominated beneficiaries, or to the estate, or to a third party, explains Ken Newport, fiduciary and tax specialist at Sanlam Private Wealth.Again, however, there are exceptions. The most important is that because anything that passes to a surviving spouse is not dutiable, a policy that names a spouse as a beneficiary will be excluded.Secondly, a life policy that has a child of the deceased as a beneficiary will be exempt if the policy was taken out as part of a duly registered ante-nuptial or post-nuptial agreement.There are also technical exclusions for certain buy-and-sell policies and key man policies where the premiums were not paid by the deceased. If the policy is not exempt then a deduction of the aggregate of any premiums paid plus 6% compound interest per annum calculated from the date of inception until the date of death, is permitted against the proceeds, if the premiums were paid by the same person who is entitled to recover the proceeds, says Newport. This means that the amount that will be deemed property will be reduced with premiums plus 6% compound interest. It is also important to consider how different policies will be treated by the executor of the estate. If the policy proceeds are paid to the estate and administered by the executor, the executor is entitled to executor s remuneration, which is usually 3.5% plus VAT on the proceeds, says Gordon. &#8220;If the policy is paid directly to a beneficiary, then it does not fall into the estate for administration and the executor is not entitled to executor s remuneration. The executor merely needs to reflect it.&#8221;