SIKI MGABADELI: Time now for our Tipping Point feature, which is about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are.Today Tumisang Ndlovu speaks to Vuyiswa Mutshekwane, who is CEO of the South African Institute of Black Property Practitioners. She takes us through her journey.VUYISWA MUTSHEKWANE: I&#8217;ve had a very colourful career, to be honest. But it&#8217;s still an amazing career because I&#8217;ve learned a lot along the way. I have been an entrepreneur, I&#8217;ve started many businesses, and have been an entrepreneur since I was 20 years old. My career started out in the retail fashion industry, where I was exposed to a lot of international travel, a lot of retail strategy and marketing strategy, product pricing and all that stuff.I then headed up sales and marketing for the International African-born brand called Kisua. After we made a global success of that brand, I then moved on to a subject matter that was much closer to the heart, I suppose, and am now with the South African Institute of Black Property Practitioners, where our main objective is to drive transformation in the property sector.And as a politics and economics student, which is what I studied, it kind of feels like coming full circle to the subject-matter things that are of interest to me.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Take us though your work there. You mentioned very critical conversations that are currently happening in South Africa where the land issue is concerned, where ownership is concerned. What do you guys do at the association?VUYISWA MUTSHEKWANE: Saipp is a non-profit organisation, and we&#8217;ve been in existence now for 20 years. Over the years our journey has taken on a number of different faces or formats. I think the first 20 years were really spent around lobbying on the national policy and legislative side.We were integral in the formation of the Property Charter, and we&#8217;ve had a long-standing relationship with the Department of Public Works in terms of driving transformative policies through the actual ministry.However, now, as we approach our 20th year, and 22 years into our democracy, we have to start having very strategic discussions about whether this has worked. Has transformation happened? If not, why, and who needs to come to the party to make that happen?So our role primarily is to coordinate the entire industry and the various stakeholders within the industry towards that goal. And that goal is to finally see an industry and an economic landscape and this is not just limited to the property sector, though obviously it&#8217;s our focus but our objective is to see an economic landscape that is just more representative of our demographic.It&#8217;s not just a black thing. It&#8217;s like a representation thing. We cannot, from a sustainability perspective, expect to have 7% of the population sustaining the other 45 million people. It doesn t make sense. So our objective is really forward looking, to say the property industry is and could be a key driver of economic growth, and sustainable economic growth. It is one of the key foundations of wealth creation and wealth retention.So why are we not seeing more black people involved in this space, and why are we not seeing more women participating on the commercial side of the transactions? So our objective is to create awareness, create opportunities, facilitate access to education, facilitate access to economic opportunities and make sure that the various stakeholders in the industry are coordinated in terms of their efforts.SIKI MGABADELI: That s Vuyiswa Mutshekwane , CEO of the SA Institute of Black Property Practitioners.