The final shot in pres. Jacob Zuma’s letter to Public Protector adv. Thuli Madonsela is a clear indication that he might try to interdict her from publishing a provisional report about her investigation into state capture, says constitutional law expert prof. Marinus Wiechers. At the request of Moneyweb, Wiechers studied the statement sent to media houses by the Presidency late on Monday afternoon outlining the contents of a letter Zuma wrote to Madonsela. This followed after a meeting between the two four days earlier on October 6. In a statement issued after the meeting Madonsela described the proceedings as “cordial”, but made it clear that Zuma did not answer her questions.  She said Zuma’s lawyers argued that the investigation should be deferred to her successor, adv. Busisiwe Mkhwebane. Madonesela’s term of office ends on Friday. It was eventually agreed that she would provide Zuma with questions, which he would answer by affidavit and meet again with Madonsela to clarify anything if necessary. In his statement Zuma said he only had two days notice to prepare for their meeting and several issues required that he provide evidence. He says as an implicated person he is entitled to personally or through his legal representative question other witnesses who have appeared before the Public Protector in this matter. He further insists on seeing any documents in Madonsela’s possession relevant to the investigation. Zuma says in the light of the recent Constitutional Court ruling that remedial action by the Public Protector is binding, it is “imperative that the President be given a full opportunity to be heard in order to avoid remedial actions that can be made, based on evidence not tested by him as the implicated person in the investigation. According to Madonsela the investigation focuses on “the alleged involvement of the Gupta family in the dismissal and appointment of Cabinet Ministers and Members of Boards of Directors of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), consequent influence by the Gupta family on improper and possibly corrupt influence in the award of state contracts and licenses to companies linked to the family.” She notified Zuma in writing in March that he is implicated, “including his suspected breach of the Executive Ethics Code”. Zuma’s requests might see him question the likes of deputy minister of finance Mcebisi Jonas who publicly claimed that he was offered the job of finance minister by the Guptas before Zuma fired former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene in December and then appointed in his place relatively unknown MP Des van Rooyen, sending the markets in a tailspin. Wiechers says on the face of it Zuma’s requests seem reasonable. “He wants to know what the allegations against him are and where they come from.” He has the right to that information to prepare his response in terms of the audi alteram partem rule, which means both sides of the story should be heard. Zuma is relying on administrative justice, which is a right protected under the Constitution, and rightly so, Wiechers says. The underlying objective is however most probably to delay the investigation and final report beyond Madonsela’s term. That would leave it in the hands of Mkhwebane and the question is how she will deal with it. “She has already indicated that it won’t be a priority”, Wiechers says. As a parting shot in his letter Zuma put Madonsela on terms. He requested an undertaking from her on or before close of business on Tuesday (October 11) that her office won’t conclude the investigation or issue any report until Zuma has received all the evidence implicating him. In addition, until his legal team has had an opportunity to question witnesses who made such allegations and presented his own evidence in response. While Zuma does not state what will happen if she doesn’t give such an undertaking, Wiechers says it is clear that he is threatening her with an interdict. He says Madonsela is however bound to the Constitutional obligation to do her job without fear or favour, and that includes fear of a court order against her. He said she has indicated that she would publish a provisional report and should do so. Wiechers says Madonsela is well aware of the fact that she won’t be able to complete the investigation. By driving it so strongly and publicly in her last few days in office, she is ensuring that there would be huge pressure on Mkhwebane to complete, rather than shelve it, he says. Madonsela’s office reacted on Twitter on Monday night: PP @ThuliMadonsela3 Madonsela has noted the statement from the Presidency, issued on Monday, October 10, 2016. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  6. The PP would like to report that President Jacob Zuma was afforded a proper opportunity to tender his evidence since 22/03/2016 — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  7. President Zuma was on Saturday, October 01, 2016, given all copies of evidence implicating him. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  8. His lawyer raised a request to question witnesses for the first time on Thursday, October 06, 2016 when he was asking… — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  9.(cont)… for a deferment of the investigation to the next Public Protector. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  10. A letter has been prepared to advise the President to submit questions that will be put to witnesses on his behalf. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  11. The Public Protector’s approach to the investigation has been informed by, amongst others, section 7(9)(a) of the Public Protector Act.. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  12. It provides that: “The Public Protector shall afford such (implicated) person an opportunity to respond … in any manner… — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  13. (cont)… that may be expedient under the circumstances”. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  14. Expedient in the circumstances takes into account that the Executive Members’ Ethics Act requires an investigation… — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  15. (cont)…regarding possible violations of the Executive Ethics Code to be concluded within 30 days. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  16. It's of concern to the PP that President has on 2 occasions undertaken to answer questions and when the time arose, he changed his mind. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  17. The Public Protector genuinely believes it is in the interests of the President to account for what he knows… — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  18. (cont)…regarding the allegations which the Public Protector already forwarded to him in March 2016. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  19. The Public Protector also believes it is in the interest of public trust that the matter be concluded expeditiously. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  20. She accordingly appeals to the President to assist with any information he has that… — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016  21. (cont)…can assist the investigation, primarily, by answering the questions put to him. — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) October 10, 2016 