The Western Cape is one of the fastest growing provinces in South Africa as individuals and families migrate to the region in search of better education opportunities or a different standard of living and commerce improves as a result.This is driving up demand for residential, commercial and light industrial property. However, property availability is constrained by geographical limits, and prices are in general higher than they are in the rest of the country.Spotting the gap, property veterans Mike Flax, Abu Varachhia and Quintin Rossi have over the last five years built up a diverse portfolio of 25 property assets in the region. These include Sable Square, a retail, commercial and storage facility near to Century City and The Upper East Side, a mixed living, leisure and retail space in Woodstock.Now the partners plan to list their company, a real estate investment trust, or REIT, on the JSE. The listing is planned for early November.This will be the third listing that Flax has brought to the market. The first was the Seeff property group in 1996, which was bought out by Capital Alliance a year later. The second was his own company Spearhead in 1999. The bulk of its early properties he bought out of the Seeff Trust. Spearhead was acquired by Redefine in 2006, where Flax remained as a director until 2011.The purpose of this listing is to grant Spear access to the capital markets in order to accelerate growth, enhance the deal making abilities of the company, reduce debt and to utilise scrip for acquisitions, says Flax. The initial focus is the repayment of debt. On listing the Spear s loan to total value will reduce from about 60% to 38%. The strategy is to keep gearing close to the 50% level, says Flax.Naturally, the tax benefits from obtaining the REIT status are also attractive to shareholders.Spear is looking to raise R300 million with the listing, of which R187.5 million has already been committed via a pre-placement of shares. The expected market capitalisation at listing is R830 million.Spear s combined portfolio has a gross lettable area of 171 000m2, valued at R1.4 billion. A further 141 000m2 of undeveloped bulk is available in the portfolio to unlock additional value. For instance the company has zoning permission to build 100 residential properties at Sable Square, says Flax, who is the group s CEO. It also owns a large chunk of properties along Marine drive, Paarden Eiland. We expect to develop these in time. The area has beautiful views and zoning allows the building of high rises up to ten stories. The company differentiates itself from other diversified REIT s by being a focused REIT that specialises in the Western Cape and is able to leverage off of its regional knowledge to drive growth. Strong relationships grant Spear access to regular accretive deal flow. Property stock is limited, but there are a few private family portfolios who may wish to merge into a specialist fund because they believe in the future growth of the WC, says Flax. We have strong lease covenants across all sectors in which we are involved, as well as low portfolio vacancy rates. Furthermore, rental rates are well below overall market rates per sector. Low portfolio valuation per m2 displays a strong investment value proposition and this is supported by a relatively low loan to value ratio. This is the first listing to focus specifically on the WC, and the first in a while to focus on South Africa. The trend in recent years has been the listing of REIT s with an off-shore focus. We believe value creation comes from specialisation and focus, says Paul Duncan, investment manager at Catalyst Fund Managers. Spear is run by people who know this market very well. It is not always easy to deliver value in foreign markets where you are competing with locals who know the market well. Local knowledge is key. What may also appeal to some investors is the fact that Spear is an internally managed REIT with a low overhead cost structure and a strong management team. This is also a change from recent trends which saw companies like Dipula Income Fund, Texton Property Fund and Tower Property Fund outsource asset management. The managers were paid to manage assets and the fee was linked to the size of the fund, says Duncan. This drives growth for the sake of growth with the result that prices paid for assets are too high, and the fund becomes over-leveraged. We believe the externally managed model has been shown not to work. In the case of Spear, management will retain a 52% stake and as a result their interests are aligned with shareholders. While few details have been released, Spear will list at about R9 and anticipates an initial full year yield of 8.2% with earnings growth in the region of 13.5%. This is not a dripping roast, says Duncan. The yield may be lower than other equivalent small caps, but the company is likely to deliver strong earnings growth driven by an active focused team. Investors will be putting their faith into this. With a market cap of less than R1 billion Spear will not appeal to the big institutions, but to smaller funds with a niche focus.Investors may need to have a buy and hold view, as the share is likely to be relatively illiquid, says Duncan.