JOHANNESBURG – The Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement (MTBPS) is certainly not the most highly anticipated event on South Africa’s financial calendar. Although it is an important barometer of the country’s financial health and provides valuable insights into government’s thinking around revenue collection, spending and investment plans, it mostly passes without ballyhoo. While there is not an expectation of fireworks at Wednesday’s mini-budget, this year’s event will be closely watched by political and economic commentators, unions, ratings agencies and the South African public at large. And although the economic performance, spending plans and announcements around structural reforms won’t go unnoticed, perhaps the question South Africans most hope to get an answer to is this: Does the National Treasury remain the strong institution it has been, consistent in its approach and untainted by the political infighting and allegations of state capture that has been plaguing the country over the past few months? When finance minister Pravin Gordhan (pictured) approached the court to declare that he does not have the power to legally intervene in banks’ decisions to close Gupta-company bank accounts, several commentators believed that he would be removed from his position within days. So when Gordhan takes to the podium to deliver his MTBPS on Wednesday, he will have cleared his first hurdle. Unfortunately, there are still several ahead. Below some of his immediate challenges are highlighted. In February, Treasury expected growth of 0.9% this year. This is considerably higher than most other institutions and will likely be revised downwards. In September, the South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) revised its growth outlook from 0% to 0.4%. The International Monetary Fund expects the economy to expand by 0.1% this year, with the World Bank anticipating GDP growth of 0.4%. When S&P Global Ratings affirmed South Africa’s rating at one notch above sub-investment grade with a negative outlook in June, it revised its GDP growth assumptions from 1.6% to 0.6% for the year, but said economic growth should improve as weather patterns and terms of trade stabilise. Ratings agencies recognise that something miraculous would need to happen for the economy to start growing in excess of 2%, particularly in the weak global context. Of course they are not only concerned with the current situation, but also with the medium-term outlook, which looks slightly better, although it is not anything to write home about. The question then becomes what measures South Africa can introduce internally to ignite growth, which is why the need for structural reforms repeatedly gets highlighted. Treasury previously indicated that the MTBPS would include a package of announcements around steps it has taken to avoid a downgrade, including reforms for state-owned enterprises (SOEs). There seems to be a tug of war within government over the management of SOEs and any announcements to this effect will be closely scrutinised for indications of political interference. Labour reform has also been a point of contention and there is an expectation that an announcement around secret balloting or other measures to avoid the frequency of strikes could be made. Treasury’s thinking around plans for South Africa’s nuclear programme, something many people believe the country cannot afford given its fiscal constraints, will also be closely watched. Against a background of muted growth, rising debt and higher interest rates, Treasury indicated in February that it would accelerate the pace of fiscal consolidation and that the budget deficit would reduce from an expected 3.2% in the current year to 2.4% by 2018/19. This worked to its benefit with S&P previously noting: “The government is showing greater resolve to reduce fiscal deficits at a faster pace than we expected.” In light of a weak economic performance, and the risk this poses to revenue collection in the current fiscal year, these targets will be increasingly tough to meet. The funding crisis at universities may also put additional pressure on expenditure demands. Despite a downward economic growth trend over the last few years, South Africa’s tax revenues have been surprisingly buoyant. This was in part the result of high wage settlements in the public sector and a shift towards highly skilled workers which boosted personal income tax revenue collections. Strong household consumption growth and resilient imports also supported VAT collections. But there are serious questions about the sustainability of tax buoyancy going forward. Treasury surprised commentators in February when it did not introduce a “super tax” personal income tax bracket for wealthy individuals, but there is still an expectation that continued fiscal consolidation would require additional tax revenues going forward. Treasury has been at pains to point out that the introduction of new taxes (sugar and carbon taxes) is an effort to change behaviour, but critics argue it merely wants to raise additional revenue. The MTBPS typically don’t contain meaningful tax announcements, but is likely to provide a glimpse into government’s intention around tax hikes going forward. Government’s regulatory proposals around trusts, the Davis Tax Committee’s (DTC’s) recommendations about estate duty and the current consideration of a wealth tax, suggest that the progressive nature of tax policy may be enhanced to address inequality in South Africa. The DTC has lauded the impact South Africa’s tax and transfer system has had on income inequality, but said there is still room for improvement.