RYK VAN NIEKERK: It is now time for out Tipping Point feature and our Tipping Point is about understanding how some of South Africa s most successful leaders became who they are.Today we speak to Jol ne Leeuwner-Maritz. She is the managing partner at Leeuwner Maritz Attorneys. Tumisang spoke to her and asked her to take us through her life s journey.JOL NE LEEUWNER-MARITZ: It started for me when I was about in Standard 3, which is now Grade 5. I lived on a farm with my family and I sold grapes grown on the farm to my fellow students. That&#8217;s where I really started my entrepreneurship.But I studied law at the University of Pretoria and I later also studied graphic design and digital marketing through the University of Stellenbosch. But yes, I&#8217;m a lawyer by heart. That&#8217;s what I love. My dad is an advocate so I visited a courtroom for the first time when I was about seven or eight years old and ever since I just knew that was what I wanted to do and what I wanted to be.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Now you are marrying so many things into one.JOL NE LEEUWNER-MARITZ: Yes.TUMISANG NDLOVU: You used to sell grapes, that s the entrepreneurial spirit. You are a lawyer and a businesswoman. How was it, merging all of this into one big ball of fire and doing what you wanted to do?JOL NE LEEUWNER-MARITZ: I&#8217;ve always wanted to be a lawyer. And then there are always some opportunities that come your way. If you are interested enough and you are wide awake you will find a lot of opportunities along the way.But I think most recently most special for me is the establishment of the No Crime Culture Project, which is non-profit organisation that we started and it is about eradicating crime through moral education. That&#8217;s what we do. And then I established the Justice Pageant as one of the strategies to effect moral education across South Africa.TUMISANG NDLOVU: What drove you to start this particular passion project, because I think it&#8217;s a very, very valid conversation that needs to happen in South Africa.JOL NE LEEUWNER-MARITZ: Yes, it is very valid. My sister moved to Canada and it was just very traumatic for me. I&#8217;m very close to my sister and I realised that I couldn t lose any more family members, and I don t think anyone else wants to. We are starting to flee because of fear for our lives.So we started the No Crime Culture. I started with my dad and my husband and some other people, but mostly my dad and my husband. I did a lot of research as to different crime-prevention methods, because there are various schools of thought.There s the criminal justice school and you get the developmental school. The criminal justice school says we have to have more policing, we have to bring back the rope. But in isolation more policing won&#8217;t have an effect on crimes in the home, abuse in the homes. Bringing back the rope won&#8217;t stop crimes of passion, for instance.The developmental school says we have to educate our people and get them part of the business environment. But that won&#8217;t stop corruption and crimes of that nature.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Unfortunately, that is all we have time for tonight. That was Jol ne Leeuwner-Maritz in discussion with Tumisang Ndlovu.