Much has been made in recent months and years about Capitec’s meteoric rise in customer numbers. Based on headline numbers alone, with 7.917 million clients, the bank is now the third largest in the country, ahead of both FNB and Nedbank. As I argued last year (One Capitec number that will have execs smiling), it’s the growth in primary banking clients that should (and is) worrying executives at rival retail banks. In the six months to 31 August 2016, Capitec Bank added a further 263,000 primary bank clients, to take the total to 3.606 million. This equates to 46% of its overall client base. I would argue that while Capitec will gladly point to the overall number of clients and the growth on that base, it’s far more focussed on growing the number of primary bank clients (customers who use Capitec for day-to-day banking, and where their salary is deposited).   Retail banking customers, SA only* Standard Bank 11.4 million Barclays Africa Group (effectively Absa) 8.9 million Capitec 7.9 million Nedbank 7.6 million FNB 7.4 million * To end-August for Capitec, to end-June for other banks  FNB’s numbers are skewed lower by the fact that Wesbank’s asset finance and personal loans customers are not counted as part of this figure, given FirstRand’s federated structure (these would be counted as part of the other banks’ figures). A year ago, in its 2015 annual report, FirstRand disclosed these numbers and they total an additional 1.02 million customers.   Retail banking customers, SA only* Standard Bank 11.4 million Barclays Africa Group (effectively Absa) 8.9 million FirstRand (FNB and Wesbank) 8.4 million Capitec 7.9 million Nedbank 7.6 million * To end-August for Capitec, to end-June for other banks  This offers a noticeably different picture, although the banks all have different way of reporting this data. In some cases, there would necessarily be ‘double counting’… For instance, an FNB customer could be a Wesbank customer. The group doesn’t report a consolidated base. For other banks, a breakdown of different bases (like credit card, transactional accounts, etc.) is often given. A single customer may belong to more than one of these segments. (And some banks count small business customers as retail ones, while others don’t.) Given Capitec’s limited offering (One account), its numbers could arguably be termed the ‘purest’. So, one might say that these ‘overall’ customer numbers are somewhat of a red herring… Obviously, the most profitable customers are towards the top of the ‘pyramid’ and are those who hold and use multiple products within a bank (think cheque account, credit card, home loan, vehicle finance, investments, debt). On an absolute basis, the ranking of banks – only the retail segments in South Africa – by earnings looks rather different.  Retail banking, SA only Last six months headline earnings* Retail banking customers FirstRand (FNB and Wesbank) R5.137 billion 8.4 million Standard Bank** R5.021 billion 11.4 million Barclays Africa Group (effectively ‘Absa’) R3.402 billion 8.9 million Capitec R1.754 billion 7.9 million Nedbank R1.739 billion 7.6 million * To end-August for Capitec, to end-June for other banks ** Standard Bank’s earnings and net income figures for ‘Personal Markets’ include the ‘business’ and ‘bancassurance’ segments (not Liberty)  I’ll reiterate a point I made in August (A startling contrast between Absa and Nedbank (or not?)), citing Bloomberg’s Matt Levine who argues (strongly) that “A bank is a collection of reasonable guesses about valuation. It is a purely statistical process. There is no objective reality. At best, there is a probability distribution, a reason to reject the null hypothesis with some level of confidence.” So, bank impairments and earnings (to a large extent) are reasonable guesses at a given point in time. But, this is what we have to work with… But it’s on a per customer basis, where a comparison between South Africa’s five large retail bank is possibly most interesting (even after accepting the inherently ‘flawed’ nature of the customer data). Note that the table below measures revenue, not profit. Another important distinction to highlight is that this extends across multiple product lines and customer segments.  Retail banking, SA only Net income after impairment charge* Revenue per customer per month Standard Bank R20.557 billion R300 FNB (only)** R12.579 billion R300 Barclays Africa Group (effectively ‘Absa’) R13.268 billion R248 Nedbank R9.814 billion R216 Capitec R5.070 billion R107 * To end-August for Capitec, to end-June for other banks ** Wesbank does not disclose net income/impairments for its South African unit only (and MotoNovo in the UK is increasingly material) so cannot be included in this calculation. Given how profitable this unit is, on a relative basis, this would push FirstRand out in front by some margin.  On a profit, or earnings, basis, the picture diverges to some extent… Retail banking, SA only Last six months headline earnings* Profit per customer per month FirstRand (FNB + Wesbank) R5.137 billion R105 FNB (only) R3.671 billion R86 Standard Bank R5.021 billion R73 Barclays Africa Group (effectively ‘Absa’) R3.402 billion R64 Nedbank R1.739 billion R38 Capitec R1.754 billion R37 * To end-August for Capitec, to end-June for other banks  In a statement to BusinessTech, FNB noted that “a race to achieve customer numbers without a measure of customer value” is not its primary goal. “Our business focus is on the quality of customers we have attracted and retained.” These aren’t simply words! On a per customer basis, FirstRand (and its franchises FNB and Wesbank) generate the most revenue and the most profit. Standard Bank and Barclays Africa Group’s Absa are relatively similar on a profit per customer basis. Nedbank and Capitec trail by some margin. This sort of exercise helps explain why the market rates FirstRand so highly among the so-called (and probably incorrectly labelled) ‘big four’ (which it has done, consistently, for some time now). Capitec is rated for growth, a track record it has more than ably demonstrated.   price:earnings ratio Capitec 20.46 FirstRand 11.87 Standard Bank 9.92 Nedbank 9.7 Barclays Africa Group 8.68  An alternative way of looking at income and profitability would be to calculate the non-interest revenue (in other words fees, service charges and commissions) per retail customer. Non-interest revenue is not the part of the income statement affected directly by impairments, interest rates and the credit cycle. Nedbank – the bank with the most detailed disclosure by far – says on its transactional base, this amount is R720 per year (annualised on the H1 2016 numbers). That’s R60 per month, a number that has been increasingly steadily (and deliberately) for the past number of years. More, later this week… * Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at hilton@moneyweb.co.za. * He owns shares in FirstRand, first purchased in July 2011.