The Banking Association South Africa (Basa) has issued a statement saying it is fundamentally concerned with the timing of the decision to summons Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan on a charge of fraud, especially since Gordhan has just returned from an investor roadshow to the US where he promoted South Africa and met with rating agencies. Cas Coovadia, MD of Basa said: “We reiterate our previous position on this matter and remain absolutely clear that the law must take its course and the proceedings related herewith must be dealt with in an appropriate and responsible manner so as to not unduly and negatively impact on the economy and what Minister Gordhan has achieved to date to restore investor confidence and concrete measures to reignite economic growth.” The statement further states that while Basa will not comment on the merits of the case and allegations in this regard, “we are deeply troubled by this announcement and wish to reiterate our support and appreciation for the leadership and direction shown by the minister of finance, his commitment, the work he has undertaken and what he has been able to achieve thus far within a turbulent environment and under extreme pressure. “We also emphasise the minister has been able to achieve positive outcomes in a difficult situation because he has behind him an excellent team in National Treasury. “I saw first-hand how professional, committed and hard-working this team is when I was on the roadshow with them earlier this year.” “Based on our engagements and interactions with Minister Gordhan and the National Treasury under his leadership, we remain confident in him and the team and reaffirm our support for both the abilities of Minister Gordhan and the National Treasury,” Coovadia said. Frans Cronje, CEO of the South African Institute of Race Relations, also added his views on the saga. “This has been coming for a long time – and we have been warning groups we brief to expect it. Business leaders have been duped and need to greatly improve their read of the environment they are operating in if they are to lead their companies successfully in South Africa’s increasingly fraught policy climate. Coming so soon after the business community’s PR trip to the United States of America this is [President Jacob] Zuma making the point that he is in charge,” Cronje said. “Gordhan is not such a great finance minister as can be attested to in the debt to GDP ratio and the fact that he has been loathe to endorse the real reforms to labour and empowerment policy that will be necessary to make possible any sustained economic recovery. “Our sense is that it is naive to think that this shows desperation in Zuma’s part. It could just as easily be a sign of the strength of his regime – which is what we think it is. The story of the ANC old guard rising up is totally overblown. “So as not to set a terrible precedent Gordhan is obliged to resign. The case must run its course,” Cronje continued. “There was always a horrible danger in tying South Africa’s economic future to one man. The lobbying and advocacy efforts of business leaders must be around ideas and policies not personalities. “Gordhan’s legal problems and even resignation do not shut off avenues to economic reform in South Africa,” Cronje said. Lesiba Mothata, chief economist at Investment Solutions, said: “While no one person is above the law – and they should be tried in court if found wanting – the way in which the grandstanding between the minister of finance and the National Prosecuting Authority is playing out is eroding confidence. It is unfortunate that when South Africa can e”asily delay a ratings downgrade, it seems poised to deliver its fate to a sub-investment grade (so-called junk status) decision. Business Unity South Africa CEO Khanyisile Kweyama said in an interview: “We also want to reiterate our confidence in Gordhan and the work he has been doing with business to avert a ratings downgrade‚ stabilise the economy and stimulate job creation particularly for the youth . “We have been working with him on that and he has just come back with business leaders from a road show to avoid the downgrade. We are concerned that he has to be dealing with this [situation] at this time.”