Famous Brands has expanded into the catering industry by acquiring a 49.9% stake in popular commercial catering company, By Word of Mouth for an undisclosed sum. This is part of the group’s stated strategy to move into the food service leisure and hospitality sector. “This transaction is the culmination of two years of intensive discussions and a process of gaining an understanding of and mutual respect for each other’s businesses,” says Kevin Hedderwick, Famous Brands head of strategy. “Owners Karen and Adrian Short are passionate about their company and determined to ensure that our partnership will be in the best long-term interests of By Word of Mouth; they will continue to manage the business, supported by Famous Brands.” By Word of Mouth was established in 1993 by Karen Short who identified a demand for high quality catering and professionally managed events. Karen’s husband, Adrian Short,joined the business in 2003. Over the past 23 years the company has built a reputation for excellence in the industry. The company is based in Gauteng, in Linbro Park, and also manages a 400-seater venue, ThePolo Room, at the Inanda Polo Club. The business employs a staff complement of over 200. “Our partnership with Famous Brands is a great fit for numerous reasons: quality and attention to detail are paramount to both of our companies; we have a shared understanding of entrepreneurial, family businesses; and we are confident that Famous Brands will provide the support that we need to take our business to the next level,” says Karen Short. “We are pleased that as founders of the business we remain the majority shareholders and can continue to personally deliver our high-end, boutique service, and drive our ambition to remain a dominant force in the industry.” In the short term the plan is to integrate By Word of Mouth’s business into Famous Brands’ infrastructure where synergies permit and leverage their existing kitchen facilities at Linbro Park. Over the medium term, the intention is to expand the business’s existing presence in the premium corporate market, a fast-growing segment of the commercial catering category. Over the longer term, the goal is also to establish a footprint for By Word of Mouth in Cape Town and Durban. “A key aspect of this partnership is the opportunity to enter the home meal replacement retail space, through high-end stand-alone stores offering bespoke products created by Karen Short,” says Hedderwick. This retail business model will resemble the hugely successful “COOK” company in the UK, which produces ready-made meals using ingredients and techniques that ‘a good cook would use at home to ensure meals look and taste homemade’. “I am particularly excited about the growth prospects of this component of the business because there is a strong and growing demand for an offering of this kind in the economically resilient upper-end of the South African market,” he says.