For some time now, Deutsche Bank has been under pressure. Deutsche Bank is central to global trade in many derivative and risk products (particularly in Europe) and its exposure in assorted derivatives amounts to trillions of dollars. If such exposure is combined with a negative interest environment, there is severe profit pressure on the bank. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) issued a damning 63-page report on the German banking and insurance sector in July. It is a long and thorough report, with the key point buried on page 42 in one sentence: “Deutsche Bank appears to be the most important net contributor to systemic risks in the global banking system.” It’s important to realise that news of pressure on Deutsche Bank is not a hushed-up secret (as the “penny-dreadful” newsletter websites will tell you); rather, it is a long unfolding and painful transition, which the “new” CEO – John Cryan – has been addressing for over a year now. Banks, by their very nature, are fragile – they are inherently highly geared and require the implicit backing of a country’s reserve bank to ensure that depositors stay content – and stable. In the only graph for this article, take cognisance of the scale of the data and of the date.  The graph shows that Deutsche Bank has been exposed at large levels for quite some time – at least since 2015 – and their actual derivative exposure is down from these levels. A lot of derivative contracts can mean many things; once you deduct the various long and short exposures, the remaining balance may truly be negligible – provided counter-party risk is managed. So why all the dust and thunder around Deutsche in the last week? Several aggravating factors have been raised recently. Firstly, the US subsidiary of Deutsche Bank did not pass a Fed-imposed stress test. Secondly, the US Department of Justice (a division of the US government so full of non-lateral-thinking bureaucrats that would make any post office envious) decided it was time to loudly announce their opening position on fines to be imposed upon Deutsche Bank for mortgage securities violations prior to 2008. The amount was $14 billion – almost as much as Deutsche’s market cap. Note that the DoJ settled with the American banks it fined for the same issues many multiples below their starting points. Thirdly, this announcement prompted Angela Merkel to wade into the fray to say that there would be no German state bail-out of Deutsche Bank. We can infer that she was conveying to the DoJ that Germany would not support Deutsche Bank simply for the purpose of paying their fine. Unfortunately, because of the importance of confidence in banking, Merkel’s announcement merely served to aggravate the situation. The truth is that Deutsche Bank is so important to the German economy and payments system that the German government has no choice in the matter. Nevertheless, this kind of fumble that can snowball rapidly. Undoubtedly, the German government is hoping that the banks will find that the so-called coco (contingent convertible) bonds will suffice. The cushion in Deutsche Bank’s case is similar to its market cap – which is comforting, but not sufficient in a crisis. I’m sure that the German Finance Ministry is well (and glumly) aware of this. What does this mean for clients holding Deutsche Bank ETF products here in SA and abroad? Since the 1980s, the segregation of client and bank assets has become very well entrenched in investment banks. This is something that regulators have gotten down pat, and the correct structuring for such assets is a well-established path. Thus the assets held for the Deutsche Eurostoxx 50 ETF are held well away from bank assets. We are therefore very comfortable to continue to hold the DB Eurostoxx, Japan, USA, UK and World ETFs’ listed on the JSE. Things may, however, be murkier in relation to ETN (Exchange Traded Note) products. Banks issue these because they are easier to list than ETFs; however, the ETNs are secured against the bank balance sheet – not against segregated funds. I don’t hold any Bank ETN products in client portfolios. I took this decision with regret because I like the exposures that some of the JSE-listed ETN’s provide. However, the decision is prudential and probably (hopefully) unnecessary. Should Deutsche Bank issue ETF’s in these products I would snap them up immediately. I felt it necessary to discuss this issue this month as I cannot stand by and do nothing if the pronouncements and bungling of politicians and technocrats place market wellbeing at risk. However, it’s important to note that the issue has been well-ventilated and counter-parties have had a long time to get their ducks in a row. It’s important to be aware; but less useful to run around like a chicken. I hope to see Deutsche Bank in 2020 with a considerably slimmed down derivative book, and a financial sector that has embraced Warren Buffett’s attitude towards derivatives. I will never be convinced that the economic benefits of most derivatives offset the degree of risk concentration that they cause. Bigger margin deposits would be a good start.  Warwick Lucas is Chief Investment Officer at Galileo Capital