JOHANNESBURG – In the wake of the National Prosecuting Authority’s announcement that it would initiate legal proceedings against finance minister Pravin Gordhan, banking shares and the rand took a knock. Yet, the reaction was not quite a sharp as commentators have anticipated. On Wednesday, the rand initially continued its slide against the dollar, but it reversed in late afternoon trade following reports that the fraud charges could be reviewed. Banking shares remained under pressure and while the FTSE/JSE All Share Index was in the black earlier in the day, it closed 0.68% lower at 51 548.13 points. While local investors have experienced a bumpy ride since Nenegate in December and should probably brace themselves for more to come, volatility globally seems to be on market watchers’ radar. In its Fourth Quarter Global Investment Outlook, the BlackRock Investment Institute notes that while Central Banks’ asset purchases have restricted volatility and have been a catalyst for greater risk appetite, markets could experience “short bursts of heightened volatility as the limits of monetary policy become clearer”. The report highlights volatility as one of three themes to watch: According to the Institute, a period of subdued volatility and the performance of momentum strategies (exploiting existing up or downward trends in the market) have encouraged many investors to pour money into comparable investments. Popular investments include overweight positions in emerging market debt, US credit and US equities, while many investors have underweight positions in European equities and the British pound. “Positioning in these asset classes has moderated from summer peaks. Yet some popular investments are still hovering near extreme levels…, which we see as an important signal of short-term risk. “These positions may be vulnerable to a market shock or rising volatility, especially when combined with high valuations. It is important to manage this risk by being selective,” it notes. It believes investors should be cautious of the short-term risks in popular assets and keep their eyes open for “opportunities away from the crowds”. In this arena, the Bank of Japan is leading the charge. The Institute estimates that it would hold two-thirds of Japanese government bonds by 2020, but seems to have recognised the limits. “The European Central Bank (ECB) also faces a looming shortage of eligible bonds.” “As monetary policy reaches its limits, some major economies appear on the verge of relying more on fiscal policy to boost growth. Infrastructure spending proposals feature in the US presidential campaign. Japan and Canada have pushed ahead with public investment. And the UK looks set to temper its fiscal consolidations. The result: fiscal expansion in the developed world should modestly support growth in the medium term, a sea change from years of fiscal contraction.” The South African situation is somewhat different. While some economists believe it has reached the end of the hiking cycle, Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago has stressed that the next move may not necessarily be downwards. Both local and international market commentators have highlighted that investors should expect returns to moderate. “Investors are being forced to take on more risk to meet their targeted rates of return. This is pushing them into smaller asset classes, such as high yield and emerging market debt, that may be more prone to bouts of severe volatility. High valuations versus history point to more muted returns across asset classes in the long run.”