CAPE TOWN – In a world of massive and rapid change, the financial services industry is coming to realise that it has to re-think what makes for a good investment. And more and more, the people whose assets they are investing are demanding this of them too. “The world is a closed system and what we are understanding with increasing certainty is that everything impacts everything else,” says Jon Duncan, the head of responsible investing within the Old Mutual Investment Group. “It is all interconnected. This has powerfully landed in the financial services sector. Capital allocators with long term horizons are starting to realise that we need to look at the world through a sustainability lens. The companies with long term sustainable cash flows are the ones who will be resilient in this very rapidly changing world.” In other words, the companies that are aware of their impact on the world around them and take environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues seriously, are the ones most likely to produce sustainable long term returns. This is no more than common sense, and both institutional and retail investors are alive to it. As a result, Duncan says that what is currently happening in the asset management world is similar to what happened in the apparel industry a decade and a half ago. “That’s when people started to ask difficult questions about where their shoes were made and by whom,” Duncan says. Similarly, people are asking whether the companies designing their financial products are doing so responsibly. Are they trying to exploit short term profit opportunities, or are they thinking about the long term impact of what they do? Duncan points out that Old Mutual conducted a survey in South Africa last year which found that 82% of the people polled said that responsible investing is important. One in three said that if they could get the same return from a basket of companies that is better for the planet, they would switch. “So it’s not only the right thing to do,” says Duncan, “it’s the smart thing to do if you are designing financial products.” This approach is also far more than just appeasing changing investor tastes. As Siboniso Nxumalo, the boutique head of Old Mutual Emerging Markets points out, taking corporate governance seriously when making investment decisions is good investment sense. “In South Africa, corporate governance is generally high and we sometimes take it for granted,” he says. “But in other emerging markets it’s a different kettle of fish altogether.” As an example, he points to a company by the name of Sino Forest Corporation. The company, which which operates forest plantations in China, was listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and at its peak was the largest forestry firm on the bourse with a market capitalisation of over $4.5 billion. However, in 2011 allegations started being made that it was inflating the value of its assets and and revenues. “The company’s market capitalisation collapsed, it was de-listed, and the auditors were fined,” says Nxumalo. “And the main problem was that they were not adhering to best practices when it comes to corporate governance.” His point is that asset managers who were taking governance issues seriously and scrutinised the way the company was operating would have identified the risks before the scandal broke. They would therefore have avoided the company, no matter how good its fundamentals appeared to be. “From this we learnt that some of the best investments are the ones that you don’t make,” Nxumalo says. “It costs a lot of work and time to generate returns for clients, but it only takes one mistake to blow it all away. And that’s why governance matters.”