There are a number of factors to consider when looking at your current situation, not all of them necessarily being of a financial nature. The fact that you have no debt to your name other than a small mortgage is commendable and does give you some flexibility when considering your options.I would presume, based on the information that you have provided, that your current pension fund is a Defined Benefits Fund. As you correctly point out, were you to leave the funds (all or some) with them, the risk ultimately lies with the fund to ensure that they are able to meet their obligations to you and their other members, which should provide you with some peace of mind. However, I would urge you to thoroughly investigate the viability and financial soundness of the fund and their ultimate ability to meet these obligations, now and into the future. Defined benefit funds around the world are experiencing problems adequately meeting their financial obligations. There are a variety of reasons for this, however, the increasing longevity of the members of these funds and the distortion caused by ultra-low interest rates in most developed economies is probably at the crux of this funding issue.Another issue I would make sure you get clarity on would be their policy on annual increases in income. At an age of 57, assuming you are in reasonable health, I would argue that it is not unreasonable to assume that you can expect to live for another 20 &#8211; 30 years and thus your income will need to increase by a reasonable percentage each year. Medical costs are likely to increase at a pace faster than general inflation over time and attempting to ensure that your fixed income has a chance of keeping pace with these increases is vital.Lastly, it is important to note that the funds obligation finishes either upon your death, or on the death of your spouse. Many of these funds will provide a 50% or 75% benefit to the surviving spouse, however, there will be no leftover capital to be left as an inheritance to heirs upon death.Assuming that you have satisfied yourself with the ability of the fund to meet its obligations, we can address the remainder of your questions.Upon retirement from a retirement fund, you are limited to taking a maximum of one third of the funds value in cash, with the balance having to be used to purchase a pension or annuity which will then pay you a monthly income. This monthly income is taxed entirely as income in your hands, all at your marginal tax rate.The lump sum is taxed separately at retirement fund lump sum rates, assuming that you have never withdrawn or retired from a retirement fund before in your lifetime. The first R1 050 000 can be taken at an effective tax rate of 12.43%, which means that you will receive a net R919 500. I would suggest that it makes sense to take at least a gross figure of R1 050 000 lump sum as this effective tax rate is lower than what your will pay on the monthly income received from the pension. You mention a figure of R660 000 being where the next tax bracket starts from however, I think you may be confusing the retirement withdrawal table to the retirement withdrawal tax table. A R660 000 withdrawal results in a net R545 700, whilst retiring and taking the same figure gross results in a net R631 200. As you are over the age of 55 (the notional retirement age for retirement funds) and are in need of a monthly income, I would suggest that you do not even consider the withdrawal route. This lump sum should provide you with enough cash to explore setting up your small business option.Lastly, depending on the cash lump sum you land up taking and how much you need to set up your small business idea, I would recommend keeping the balance of your cash as discretionary funds, i.e. invested in ordinary unit trusts, ETFs directly and not via any sort of retirement fund. This gives you complete freedom and flexibility over those funds when it comes to where and how you invest and no undue restraints if/when you need to access those funds. Additionally, should you need to supplement your income with these funds at any stage, this is a more tax efficient way to do so than having an income paid from a pension or living annuity, all of which is taxable as income in your hands.