Lately, it seems that we are constantly bombarded with images of the &#8220;ideal&#8221; or &#8220;perfect&#8221; life.You know the life I mean. It s the hashtag life in which you own a gleaming mansion with a sparkling sapphire pool amid undulating emerald hills. You drive a sleek car to meet elegant acquaintances at the most upmarket restaurants. Your vacations find you sizzling on tropical beaches or strolling the twilight streets of romantic foreign cities.If your real life does not match these idyllic Instagram images, you may begin to feel you have been paddling the wrong boat or dingy! Worse still, when it looks like everyone is living the dream except you, you may call your career and salary cheque into question.Before you get caught in a negative spiral about your personal finances, hit the pause button and give your wiser self some airtime.Check in with yourselfHow likely are you to make a poor financial decision when you crave the designer wear so many of your friends are sporting? And what about when your colleague parks his brand new BMW next to your humble Hyundai?I imagine the key question is: How much does this competitive lifestyle impact our psyche and belief system around money?As a financial planner in his late twenties, the question holds two-fold relevance for me: firstly, I need to understand my clients relationship with money in order to partner with them effectively; and, secondly, I need to understand my emotions regarding money to ensure I exercise wisdom in managing my own finances.Check in with realityThe reality is, debt is at an all-time high in South Africa with estimates that 86% of South Africans are in debt. A recent Rand Daily Mail article entitled: &#8220;What 10 million South Africans struggling with debt should know&#8221; cites Paul Slot, a director at Octogen, a leading debt-counselling company. He states that their model estimates that, in South Africa, debt repayments represent 49% of monthly spending by the average consumer. He went on to say that personal loans are the biggest culprits, then clothing and furniture accounts. This spending represents 27% of the average consumer s net income. Octogen found that 23% of after-tax income is spent on rent or bond repayments and 17% on the repayment of vehicle purchases.If you do some quick maths, that does not leave a lot of room for savings.South Africa is faced with multiple socio-economic problems, and wealth inequality is one of the most pressing issues. With 86% of South Africans in debt, it is clear that we are failing on all fronts &#8211; politically, socially, and within financial services both to educate our citizens and to provide means for them to escape debt. Inside this 86% is a large portion of people who are not making wise financial decisions for their future. It is very easy to fall into the debt trap, and once you are caught, it becomes very difficult to get out. Regardless of what you earn, funding your lifestyle with debt is seldom a wise choice.Checking the solutionsThe first step is a simple one of seeing clearly: don t be fooled. The familiar adage of keeping up with the Joneses is still very relevant today and this, unfortunately, puts people under pressure financially. That flashy lifestyle online is often a result of debt, even though you see #hardworkpaysoff on social networks.So what can we do?Firstly, let s start speaking openly and honestly with the people we know and stop perpetuating the myth that we are better off than we truly are. This means you have to detach your personal value from the things you own.Secondly, recognise that debt is not a gift! When the bank calls to offer a higher credit limit or access to a loan, say, &#8220;No, thank you!&#8221;. It is easy to think we ll pay back the money, but we forget about the interest we will incur. Nor do we take into account that &#8220;Life Happens&#8221; and that a simple thing like a burst tyre or minor accident can set us back years in terms of debt repayments.Debt can be a financial enabler if used responsibly and with sound financial advice. A home loan, for example, can be a healthy form of debt because you purchase an appreciating asset; if you use the home to generate rental income, this income can be used to settle the bond sooner and save on interest.Banks generally don t encourage you to settle your debt quickly as they make money out of the interest you pay over the term of the loan. This highlights the importance of seeking independent financial advice. A qualified financial planner should be able to identify and address your personal and business risks. Always keep in mind that you have a whole life ahead of you and it will be filled with transitions that could change your life forever. These are risks that should be catered for before you purchase that new Golf GTI, or that set of furniture.So, thirdly, seek expert advice. As a financial planner, I find it intriguing that so much analysis goes into investing money, while, conversely, debt is granted (or taken on by consumers) with minimal analysis of the financial well-being of the consumer. Would you make a major medical decision without consulting your doctor? Putting yourself in debt before seeking advice is akin to taking headache tablets to treat a viral infection. Financial well-being and medical health both require a diagnosis before devising a solution.No matter where you are in life, start with a plan. Consult professionals for guidance before making financial decisions so you can, at least, understand the consequences. Live within your means and keep yourself accountable. You may be in a debt trap and it is going to take some hard work to free yourself. The good news is, however, that it is possible if you commit to changing your financial behaviour and seek the help you need in order to do so.Final check-upDon t listen to the noise on social media: that friend who bought the latest BMW is now in debt and owns a very thirsty, depreciating asset. Or could you possibly be comparing yourself to someone who has made sound financial decisions and could afford that BMW because they spent years living within their means in order to grow their small business into an empire?South Africa needs young, financially wise citizens to grow this nation into something special for future generations. I believe it s time to forget about the hashtags or maybe try pioneer your own. How about #financiallyfree?Jason Appel, CFP, is a retirement specialist at Chartered Wealth Solutions.