TUMISANG NDLOVU: In this week’s SME Corner we speak to agripreneur and founder of the Village Market South Africa, Portia Morudi. Portia, take us through what you do, some call you the bee lady? PORTIA MORUDI: Oh my word, basically I am a bee farmer, we go around starting bee farms in rural communities mostly or finding social ills that we could actually use bees to tackle them, in a nutshell that’s what we do. The reason why we do it is we know that bees are threatened and South Africa is not producing good quality honey, most of our honey comes from China and Argentina. So we are trying to bridge that global gap because there is a shortage of good quality honey. We identified a lot of arable land in most of these South African rural communities. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Wonderful, why go into this line of work? PORTIA MORUDI: It was really by chance, it wasn’t planned, in 2012 I decided to quit my job without a plan and around that time my grandfather suggested we attend a course about bee farming. The reason why was that we had bees that would go into our ceiling, produce so much honey that they would actually make the ceiling cave in. Most people would consider bees to be pests, so we also used to smoke them out and burn tyres and do all sorts of things but that wasn’t working, hence, he suggested let’s see how we can – he’s an entrepreneur of note – so he thought let’s see what we can do with these bees and then I realized all these things after going through the training that there is a shortage of honey, that our bees are dying out and that impacts on food security, and then I decided to go with it. TUMISANG NDLOVU: That’s amazing, what goes into running a business like this then? PORTIA MORUDI: A lot of working with people, working with communities because our model is in such a way that we didn’t want to end up owning tens of thousands of hives, instead we set up bee projects in communities. For example in Winterveld we assist farmers with bee pollination at no cost, so we would go in, place hives on their land and then they would benefit from the bee pollination. In KZN we’ve set it up in such a way that it’s a community project in partnership with Elephants, Rhinos and People. We set up the community with bee hives and constructed a bee fence, so basically this bee fence is preventing elephants that are coming from Mozambique and raiding crops in these remote villages. So elephants don’t like bees, so we’ve set up this community project whereby as the Village Market we buy back the honey from the community. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Wonderful, this sounds so amazing and I can see that it’s been a journey of learning, what stands out for you as a highlight? PORTIA MORUDI: I think there are so many things but I think with time I’ve learnt the art of reinvention really, if something doesn’t work, business has failed before and I have just learnt to be open to changing the idea if it doesn’t work or finding other ways of doing it better and that keeps us going. Really there is no room for giving up, even though we fail we try again because we know of all these communities we are impacting and, hence, we keep going. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Any challenges in this journey? PORTIA MORUDI: There are challenges every day but mostly what we’ve found to be too much of a challenge has been working capital. We’ve really struggled because you try and keep your overheads low but what’s been happening is you find yourself being the administrator, being the delivery guy, being the extractor. Oh my word, you are the trainer, you are everything. That has been challenging because we travel a lot, our business requires us to go into communities and do all this work but when we are away then nobody is actually doing the work. TUMISANG NDLOVU: The business itself. PORTIA MORUDI: Yes and that really boils down to not being able to employ as many people as we should be doing at the moment. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Is there money to be made? PORTIA MORUDI: [Laughing] There is money to be made and mostly how we are making our money is through corporate gifts. So we are in the business of selling honey that is coming from all these communities and produce that’s coming from these communities but most of our money really is coming from corporate gifts, the honey is packaged beautifully, differently, so that it’s a higher price, opposed to your normal at the retailers. TUMISANG NDLOVU: I like that because it’s a form of advertising as well and it leads me to my next question, how do you then handle marketing and advertising without breaking the bank? PORTIA MORUDI: I happen to also have a background in multi-media and graphic design, so when I say we do it all, the administrator, the designer, we try and do as much as possible ourselves. So far I have been doing a whole lot of our own marketing, online media and sending out pamphlets. I love beautiful things, so I really try. TUMISANG NDLOVU: How then would you advise someone looking to get into this industry, what is needed? PORTIA MORUDI: We need so many other beekeepers around, we need to create that conducive environment for our bees to thrive and I think the more people know about it, they more they can get into it and because of the shortage we have in honey I think this is an untapped market. That’s why one would say I’m speaking to competition, I’m opening myself up for competition but I find myself in a situation whereby I feel that we are already training communities to do this work, if we can buy it back from all these guys, then why not, the cake is big enough. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Everyone can get a slice. PORTIA MORUDI: Definitely. TUMISANG NDLOVU: I’d like to get your views on the current SME space in South Africa, are you of the view that entrepreneurs have enough support, what needs to happen in this space that is quite exciting and where opportunities are plenty? PORTIA MORUDI: I think there’s a lot that could be done and it’s not being done. Personally I don’t think the focus is on the right thing in terms of the SME space. I mentioned a challenge being working capital and that’s what I’ve found with a lot of other businesses. There’s a perception that doing business with small businesses, people disappoint you and it’s not really that. What I’ve found is that it’s difficult trying to run a small business without working capital, without people, the disappointment is really around the fact that you have to be doing everything as a business owner. I find a lot of people are open to giving grants and funds for equipment and all sort of other things but are not prepared to give working capital, which is what is really needed. If you have all this fancy equipment and then you still don’t have people to operate that there’s absolutely no way that your business is going to succeed, and we found ourselves in that space. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Lastly, where to for Portia Morudi, the agripreneur? PORTIA MORUDI: We’re looking to impact as many communities as possible with bee farming and with the promise that as the Village Market we will take the produce. Access to market doesn’t have to be a problem anymore for villagers specifically. So we are prepared to take on the produce, the honey and we’re prepared to do the training. Our next project is with the visually impaired, whereby we are training them as beekeepers and we’ll also be taking that honey from them to sell through our market. We are aiming to impact Africa in a big way. TUMISANG NDLOVU: That was agripreneur and founder of the Village Market SA, Portia Morudi, in this week’s SME Corner.