Out of high cost active funds into low cost index funds this is the biggest international investment trend over the last ten years. In 2015 alone, clients yanked $207 billion (R2.9 trillion) from US based mutual funds that handpicked their positions, while pouring $414 billion (R5.8 trillion) into index funds. This data from research firm Morningstar echoes what is also happening in the UK and Europe, says Steven Nathan, CEO of 10X Investments.There are different reasons for the increasing popularity of low-cost index funds. According to Nathan one reason that is often cited by corporate and individual investors, is the consistent under-performance of active managers. The S&amp;P SPIVA Index shows that more than 80% of active managers under-performed the benchmark index in the US and in South Africa over 10 years to December 2015. (See graph below) Clients are not rewarded with high performance, despite the high fees of active managers. In fact, compared to an index fund most investors suffer a double whammy from lower returns and higher fees, says Nathan.Greater media awareness of the true performance of active managers also make investors more aware of their own investments performance and encourage them to consider better performing options. In the US, for instance, you will no longer see the media glorifying star fund managers. The mainstream financial publications focus on articles that educate readers about proven investment principles, he says.SA still to catch upAccording to Nathan, South Africa lags these trends, largely for three reasons. The first is that local regulators do not currently require advisors to meet the fiduciary standard, although plans to remove advisor-client conflicts are underway with the Financial Services Board s Retail Distribution Review (RDR). However,this is taking far longer to implement than planned, Nathan says.According to him it works very differently, for instance, in the US, where regulators have a fiduciary duty for financial advisors, which differentiates traditional brokers and advisors from fiduciaries.In April 2016, the US Department of Labour (DOL) issued a new rule requiring financial advisers who handle retirement accounts to act as fiduciaries, which means putting the best interests of their clients first.The DOL s stated objective is to mitigate conflicts of interest that exist between firms, advisors and their clients and to address concerns that firms and advisors are incentivised to recommend their product or service that may not be in the best interest of the customer.After the RDR review in the UK 18 months ago, it is also now expected that advisors there must provide clients with the best retirement product options and that clients are aware of all relevant fees. The bottom line is that clients should get the best product in terms of expected returns and fee, rather than a suitable product, which can be a high cost actively managed fund. Another reason South Africa still has to catch up on the international trend of dumping costly managed investments for index funds, is that South Africa does not yet have a large self-directed investment industry. Investors are only now starting to realise the benefits of direct investments through index funds. Lastly, while the local media is starting to promote index funds and low fee investing, the bulk still continues to promote star fund managers. This is compared to The Wall Street Journal, Financial Times and The Economist that actually have regular features covering the failure of active managers and their impact on long term savings outcomes. Nathan says there is, unfortunately, in South Africa still a tendency to glorify fund managers ability to pick future winners and to give investment recommendations, despite a poor track record of being able to deliver on this.This article was sponsored by 10X Investments&nbsp;