If you pay for investment advice that tells you to invest in the four most popular active managers, it is time to reconsider if you get value for your money. If you get this kind of advice, you can rather invest your money yourself and add the fees, which you would have paid an adviser, into your investment every year, says Steven Nathan, CEO of 10X Investments.In South Africa, fees average 2.75% plus VAT of your investment. It usually comprises an advice fee of about 0.75%; an administration fee of 0.5%; and an investment fee of 1.5%. On top of it, you can also incur performance fees.According to Nathan, investors accept paying fees too easily, without questioning if they really benefit from it. They should also be more aware of how fees can impact their investments in the long term. It is possible to reduce your fees and improve your performance by investing in index tracker funds. In fact, research shows that very few active managers beat index funds. So you may not be receiving the best advice even though you are paying for it, he says.There are also other examples where you pay for fees that can be avoided. For instance, you don t need to pay a linked service provider platform (LISP) if you invest in a balanced fund yourself.Checklist for feesTo assess if you get value for the fees you pay, you must understand the services you can be charged for. According to Nathan these are generally three types of services, namely advice, administration and investment services. Advice feesThese typically focus on selecting the investment portfolio and manager, but it could also include basic advice around understanding different products such as retirement annuities and unit trusts. If the advisor develops a financial plan for your retirement, he should set out clearly what your long term needs will amount to and how it will be possible to reach your investment goals. You must be aware of all the applicable fees and how it will affect your investment growth. Still, you need to ask yourself if the advice you get is really worth paying a percentage of your investment every year over the product life. Administration and product fees Consumers typically invest in a life insurance company product or a unit trust product. The fees for each are different.When investing in a life company there will usually be product charges, which can include guarantee fees. The product charges are typically between 1% and 2% of the investment value per annum.With unit trust products most investments are on a LISP that is used to administer and report the aggregate investment performance of the underlying funds. In general most of the financial advisers will recommend Allan Gray, Coronation, Foord and Investec funds. LISP fees average 0,5% plus VAT, Nathan says. Investment fees These are paid to the investment fund, such as funds, mainly for investment management. Fees can range from 0.4% (index funds) to 3% (fund of funds), but average around 1.5% plus VAT. Reducing your feesIndex funds generally produce better returns at lower fees. So it is possible for investors to reduce their fees and improve their investments performance by investing in an index fund.There are companies that provide an integrated investment service that is personalised to your investment needs. These services include financial planning tools, administration and investment management for one low fee.Nathan says that 10X is such a company, which rebalances the investor s portfolio and manages it throughout the investment life, with advice and risk management built into the product.Based upon the investment balance and product, 10X s total fees range between 0.3% and 0.9% plus VAT.Individuals can access the same portfolios used by the blue chip corporate clients of 10X, such as General Motors, Virgin Active, EOH and Macquarie Bank. All clients are able to track their investment progress with 10X s retirement planning tools and can access their investments online, via the 10X App and SMS. 10X portfolios are globally diversified using index funds to deliver competitive long-term returns and minimise fees. The company really makes investing simple as all clients invest in the same portfolios. There are no complex or competing investment choices, Nathan says.This article was sponsored by 10X Investments&nbsp;