JOHANNESBURG – Next month, it will be one year since I signed up for Discovery Vitality’s Active Rewards programme. To encourage a more active lifestyle, the programme sets members a personalised weekly points goal, which can be achieved through various physical activities. Doing so consistently means you can effectively gym free of charge while potentially also only paying taxes (no base fare) on two flights bookings a year. According to Discovery’s own data, Vitality members live 15 years longer on average and are less likely to develop lifestyle diseases. The business case is obvious – healthy, active members translate into less claims and a profit boost. But despite the aim of the programme, long-term health benefits may not be members’ primary consideration. When I signed up for this benefit (and yes I am aware of the “problem of samples of one or less”!) it was a financial decision. Since I was already a Vitality member, and there is no cost attached to joining Active Rewards, it seemed like a no-brainer. I could get my gym payment of R162.50 back each month, and potentially also a few thousand rand in airfares, simply by reaching a relatively easy weekly activity goal. For a moment, I even considered signing up for the Apple Watch since it too, apart from paying an activation fee, would have had no cash-flow implications provided I reached my weekly activity targets. But because I didn’t have a Discovery Gold Card and am a very happy Android user (you need an iPhone) my “cost benefit analysis” suggested that it wouldn’t make sense. It was a blessing in disguise, because when Discovery introduced changes to the points system in April, it was quite clear that reaching these weekly targets would be much harder and that I potentially would have had to pay R308.33 per month for a watch I previously thought I could get “for free”. Although Discovery argued at the time that the revisions were in no way drastic, I wasn’t convinced. Particularly for people who really have to train hard to get their heart rate in the “vigorous zone” required to get certain points, this was a drastic change, not to mention people starting out. Moreover, some device partners weren’t supported anymore (between July 1 and September 23 TomTom owners like me couldn’t get any device-related points). While I am not of the view that the points system should in any way remain static, to my mind it is the one flaw of the programme – points revisions and systems changes can be introduced unilaterally at any point and on more than one occasion during the year, making it impossible for members to predict with some degree of reliability what the cash-flow implications of their decisions to sign up for certain benefits would be over time. Expenses change and it is good financial practice to leave enough cushioning in your budget to allow for a one or two percentage point increase in interest rates on your home loan or a 10% increase in medical aid fees in January – but there is some degree of predictability to these changes. Except for the (arguably expected) points and systems changes in January, there was no way to anticipate the frequency or scope of the other changes during the remainder of the year. Why do I jump up and down about a potential R500 a month payment you ask? A lot of South Africans really can’t afford to take on additional unforeseen expenses. According to Old Mutual’s Savings and Investment Monitor for 2015, 42% of households with a monthly income between R6 000 and R13 999 would need to borrow money to pay for just a R1 000 a month in unforeseen expenses. Where households earn between R20 000 and R39 999 per month, 18% would need to borrow money to cover an unexpected charge of R1 000. Should South Africans take responsibility for their own finances? Absolutely. But the financial services sector should also pay close attention to how it designs its products and programmes so that it does not potentially contribute to the problem, especially since there is an asymmetry of information between consumers and financial institutions and the general level of financial knowledge is lacking. The dust has now settled, and following the most recent revision (which made it easier to achieve the weekly goals again) Discovery is satisfied with how the programme is developing. By Friday, 250 000 people have signed up for the Active Rewards programme, representing almost a quarter of its adult base. Its head of wellness, Dr Craig Nossel, says it continues to see a greater participation in exercises, which is what the programme aims to achieve. For 2017 the main construct of the programme will remain unchanged. Nossel says at this point it is hard to comment on changes to the points system. “There is nothing planned because we are getting the right shifts in behaviour.” A lot of the abuse that was taking place has been removed from the system and it continues to monitor the data, trends and feedback. At the moment it is very comfortable with the enhancements, he says. An interesting addition to the programme in 2017, is the “Shoe Booster” benefit that would allow members to get up to a 100% cash back on a pair of road or trail running shoes up to R2 000 every year. A R300 activation fee would include membership to its in-house running club, Team Vitality. Members would have to pay for the shoes at Sportsmans Warehouse upfront, but could qualify for a cash back of 25% within a month with the remaining 75% refunded over the remainder of the 12-month period if weekly goals are achieved consistently. Mugg & Bean and Ster-Kinekor will also come on board as partners with weekly coffee and popcorn respectively. Would I have joined the Active Rewards Programme a year ago, knowing what I know now? Undoubtedly. It is a great programme and despite some hiccups along the way, I have definitely been more active and have reaped significant benefits from the programme – financial and non-financial. Whether the frequent points and systems changes were a “necessary evil” early on and part of the programme’s teething problems, only time will tell. For now, I would be cautious to sign up for additions to the programme on the assumption that Discovery would ultimately bear the full charge. The way the points system is designed makes that a reasonable assumption, but a flawed one.