NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Throughout this series Moneyweb will be interviewing various CEOs and entrepreneurs who have taken their businesses into Africa, they will share some of their actual learnings on the ground. Ornico Group has made a solid name for itself in Africa s leading markets; the company CEO, Oresti Patricios, has more than 30 years of entrepreneurship experience in Africa and he joins us in studio. Oresti, than you so much for your time.ORESTI PATRICIOS: Hi Nastassia, thank you.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Everyone talks about the African growth story, some investors still buy into the whole Africa theme and what s happening there, but there s a little bit of fear in terms of getting in and wanting to get out very quickly. From your perspective what do you think of the Africa story?ORESTI PATRICIOS: I love fear. When everyone is ying then you must yang. So if everyone is scared then that s the time you get into it. But yes, I think the whole of Africa at the moment is taking strain because of the commodity prices, we all know the usual narrative around that. I still believe it s an exciting space to be in, even though it s seriously tough at the moment. Within Africa, one of the great things about Africa is that people have a seriously positive attitude, so they see the glass always as half full, whereas in emerging economies the glass is half empty at the end of the day. So even though we are really having some serious issues at the moment economically, I think in the future things will start turning around, and it s not just an economic issue, there are cash flow problems. For us to take our money out of Nigeria or any of the countries its becomes difficult, there are no dollars, but if you are there for the long term, and I think moving into the rest of Africa is not a sprint, it s a marathon, so you need to be in it for the long term.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: As Ornico Group you do very unique kind of business, tell us a little bit about that.ORESTI PATRICIOS: Yes, we do unique business but it s all about growth. So, the reality is that the more accurate data brands have, the more they feel comfortable about investing in an economy. So instead of these big brands saying &#8220;I ve got a spare US$10 million, let me put it into a country&#8221;, we find that if we give them timeous, accurate and relevant information that is trustworthy, they can then make decisions that can help that particular economy grow. So what we do in the economy is look at data from one perspective and that s from a branding perspective, so what are the competitors doing, how much money are they spending, what is their positioning. So where are the gaps for a particular company and that s how they look at it.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: You ve been in business for a long time and what we find very interesting is that most businesses that venture into different parts of Africa, the different countries and jurisdictions, they generally start off from a base, whether it s South Africa or the UK or the US, from your perspective when you guys started more than 30 years ago, take me through the early days of the business.ORESTI PATRICIOS: So in the early days of the business we started off in 1978 as a wedding video production company, but we pivoted, like a lot of start-ups you start in one space and move to another. We were at J. Walter Thompson, which is one of the big agencies, and we were sitting there and we saw this opportunity, and that how we moved into this brand intelligence and the media monitoring side. But the reality is ultimately what do your brands and your consumers want and our consumers are really brands at the end of the day and the more accurate information we gave them the better it helped us grow. But what we found moving into the rest of Africa was what are some of our customers doing. So MTN was moving into Africa, Standard Bank was moving into Africa, therefore, we thought here s an opportunity for us to move in where they are moving into.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So in terms of the importance of media research and how it helps you in terms of your consumers and so forth, how have you guys made your product very attractive to clients in parts of Africa?ORESTI PATRICIOS: So, again, you ve got to understand the market. So even though initially when we invested in Nigeria and we opened an office in Nigeria six or seven years ago, we thought we d develop and give exactly the same products as we have in South Africa, but you ve got to understand that market and pivot and change where we are at. So we do quite a lot of it; so what we do is we provide insight on the advertising side, we provides insights on the editorial and reputation side and on the social media side. But we actually angle it more in terms of an analysis and a measurement, an evaluation product, so what we do ultimately is we look and we try and understand how much money have you got for your advertising, what is your objective at the end of the day. So what is the outcome that you want out of this communication and we measure that against what you have done. I think that s critical and that is what really differentiates us because a lot of people don t really know where they are spending their money, so what happens is the financial guys have a complete heart attack, whereas in this way the financial guys actually have an idea in terms of where the return of investment is. Sometimes if you don t go right it s also okay, because then you know where your communications have gone wrong and you can correct it for the next time, instead of not knowing and you re making exactly the same mistake.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I think most companies would say I ve been in South Africa for a while, I ve been operating, doing this kind of business, Africa isn t really where I want to be, I m all right with the kind of income we re making here and so on. From your team how did you make the decision that let s take our first client from Africa, let s set up an office in Nigeria and Kenya, what did you take into consideration for that decision?ORESTI PATRICIOS: Okay, I didn t take it like that, I should have, but I didn t. What I did was, like a typical entrepreneur, I really believed there s a market in Nigeria, MTN, Standard Bank and everyone else is there, let me go and open up an office. So I went and opened up an office, it cost me a fortune, never made any cash, got involved with a Nigerian partner, things started happening, then he passed away and things fell apart again. Now things are starting to turn again. So what did I take out of it? Number one is I think a good relationship with a great partner who has a real understanding of the market is critical. I know people have said that often but how do you know whether that person understands the market? I suppose it s like any marriage, do you know you are marrying the right wife or husband, you don t really, you go out with them and you get a bit of a sense, and that s ultimately what we did. In Nigeria currently we own the operation 95%, so we ve got a small Nigerian partner, we ve understood how the landscape works, but we operate with 100% Nigerian staff, so they understand what is happening within that market space. The same in Kenya, 100% of the staff are Kenyan because we need to find the guys who actually understand the lay of the land. Again, in Kenya we own it 100%.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What would you say is the most surprising thing you have found about doing business in Africa, whether it s pleasantly surprising or otherwise?ORESTI PATRICIOS: There are two things, it s seriously difficult to work within Africa, but I think for Chinese or Europeans or Americans to work in South Africa it s difficult, you don t understand the system. We think it s easy because we live here and we understand the system and how it works. So going into a foreign country you don t really know how the system works and that s why having a partner does make it a little bit easier. So it s really, really difficult but surprisingly enough, one of the things I found in Nigeria specifically, everybody said you re going to have to pay a bribe left, right and centre, to date I have not paid one cent of a bribe in Nigeria. A lot of people think how can you do it, you actually can, sometimes things take a little bit longer but it actually can be done. So the surprising thing was that actually you can get work done, whether it s in Nigeria or Kenya, you don t have to pay a bribe, you can actually do stuff.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: But I suppose that also points to some of the common misconceptions about doing business in Africa, apart from giving a bribe in Nigeria, what other misconceptions have you heard that are probably not even true?ORESTI PATRICIOS: I love Lagos, I couldn t live there, but let me tell you, going into Lagos for three or four days the energy is so cool. Just before I go to Nigeria people always say to me have you got your body guards and who are your body guards and so on. I don t need body guards, I walk sometimes from my hotel and go for dinner 300 or 400 metres down the road without anybody. I don t know if I would suggest it in some of the other places, I have never been there, so I can t say that. But in Lagos I don t feel intimidated, I don t feel that I need a body guard, so that was one of the other misconceptions that people say to you. Also, people talk about drug addicts there and all that, I find the Nigerians so hospitable, they have been absolutely amazing.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I always say that as a CEO success isn t something that just lands in your lap, sometimes you try something and it works the first time or you try it and it s completely new and then you fail, and things don t really work out. Do you remember some of your failures and learnings on the ground when you decided Africa is where I am going?ORESTI PATRICIOS: I think initially understanding the markets, so what we ve decided now because of our failures in the past is trying to get into Anglo-Saxon Africa because then the rules are kind of similar, the language is kind of similar, so you have a few less hoops that you need to jump through. I think getting a client beforehand and then jumping into the country would be probably another lesson I would learn. I also think, as I said earlier, doing it with the local guys is something that you should always do, local understanding is critical.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What s your relationship with the word failure?ORESTI PATRICIOS: I failed, I failed a couple of times. One thing I haven t failed in is my marriage, so that s cool. You do fail, I ve started quite a few businesses, I remember in 1999 we had to do retrenchments because we weren t making money, we had six or seven businesses within the group, we needed to close some of the businesses that were dragging the money, and it s really understanding what did we do wrong at that point in time. One of the things I learnt out of the failure in 1999 was focus, focus, focus. We had lost our focus, there were so many businesses within the group that we had that lack of focus. So when we cut back and we restructured the group, ultimately what we did is we put people who focused on particular areas of the business.As I was saying to you earlier, failure is never a bad thing, it s about changing your mindset. I think one of the things we need to do in South Africa is how do we change our mindset, we know it s not a bad thing, we know it s a learning curve, but how do we not take it personally. I think that s what it is, just get on with it, you fall, get up and just do it again. I also do think sometimes that because we have a lack of venture capital in this country, you are scared to fail because once you fail you re not sure if you re going to get that capital again so that you can continue forward. So even from a venture capitalist perspective they must also understand that it s okay for the guys to fail, just back them because hopefully they have learnt for the next one.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: There is so much happening on the African continent, whether it s in the tech space or perhaps even in your line of business, from a trends perspective or maybe some of the exciting sectors, what gets you excited about what you are seeing on the ground?ORESTI PATRICIOS: Education, obviously, but definitely in the tech space. I was talking about Nigeria earlier, but talking about Kenya in the tech space, Kenya outsmarts us in many ways in terms of the tech space. It s really how do we take this technology within the African continent and how do we utilise it across our brands in Africa because what we find in Kenya why don t we use it in Nigeria and in South Africa. I do find that some of the algorithms that we created in South Africa, the Kenyans, believe it or not, where already way ahead of us when we moved into Kenya, they had sorted it out very quickly and very easily, and they understood that I ll call it the African way because we sometimes don t think we are in Africa, and it becomes problematic, so we create systems and algorithms to suit first world issues and that s hugely problematic, whereas in Kenya they created algorithms to work for African problems and that s why they could get into the market a hell of a lot quicker.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In terms of Ornico Group going forward, you ve been with the business for such a long time, what are some of the exciting plans that you have for next year?ORESTI PATRICIOS: We re moving from Sandton into the Joburg CBD.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That s exciting.ORESTI PATRICIOS: Yes, it s really exciting. We re doing some amazing stuff, number one we have run out of space, so we need to grow. But also the reason why we are moving into the CBD is that I think sometimes Sandton is a bit of a bubble. So if we are really trying to give advice and insight to our clients, we need to understand where the market is. Research is great, it s all numbers, but unless you re actually in touch with the market you really don t understand it. So that s one of the reasons.Number two is it s really so important to see growth and I think the CBD is an important place from a growth perspective, even in terms of the people within that space. So hiring people within the CBD, there are a lot of schools there, in fact, the builder, who is renovating our place in town, actually did small alterations and we decided we re not going for any of the big guys, we re going to go for a small guy, so we can help him out and he can grow. So he phoned me last Thursday and said, no more alterations for me, I m only do big jobs from now onwards.So it s that kind of stuff that s exciting, some of the algorithms that we re creating in terms of automating some of our stuff is important and really exciting. Also what s happened is we don t believe that in communications there are silos, but we grew up as a legacy system in silos, so we started off in advertising, we moved into the editorial space, then went into social media. What we ve done is we ve now created a database that merges and fuses all these databases.Social media is a huge thing and we are investing a lot of money into social media. A lot of artificial intelligence is absolutely critical for us because it is big data that we are accessing, so by accessing big data how do we make that data into smart data and how do we utilise it not only in South Africa but across the African continent. Also, again, when I talk about that, we need to ensure that the methodology is consistent across all of Africa because when Standard Bank is utilising the data they must be able to compare apples with apples, and I think that s where our advantage is, our methodology is similar across the 14 African countries where we either operate in or have a relationship with.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Thank you so much, Oresti.ORESTI PATRICIOS: Fantastic, Nastassia, thank you.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That was Oresti Patricios, he is the CEO of Ornico Group.