Prosecutors in the criminal trial of former Tigon kingpins Gary Porritt and Sue Bennett will this week have to show or tell regarding the missing plea and sentence agreement of its first witness, former Progressive Systems College Guaranteed Growth (PSCGG) fund MD Jack Milne.Milne more than a decade ago pleaded guilty to charges relating to the collapse of PSCGG, an investment fund guaranteed by Tigon. Tigon was at the time one of the best-preforming companies on the JSE.Milne served a jail sentence as a result of the deal he made with the State.Porritt and Bennett were arrested in 2002 and 2003 respectively and stand accused of more than 3 000 charges under the Companies Act, Stock Exchanges Control Act and Income Tax Act, as well as fraud and racketeering, all relating to the same events.The pair has brought several applications over the years, which resulted in delaying the trial for about 14 years. They are currently unrepresented as Judge Brian Spilg denied a further delay until March next year, when Porritt s legal team would be available.Following an application by Porritt on October 17, Spilg ordered the State to investigate the whereabouts of Milne s original plea and sentence agreement. He said it is the first time in his six years in this court that the State is unable to produce such a charge sheet. He said it is very unusual that the court file and the transcript of Milne s trial are also missing.The State is expected to either produce the document this week or give a proper explanation why it cannot.On Thursday Bennett submitted an affidavit in support of Porritt s application, accusing State prosecutors and Milne of colluding to produce a false version of events relating to how Milne came into possession of what the State purported to be first a partial and then a full copy of the agreement. These copies were submitted as evidence in September.Bennett said the prosecutors knew from the outset where the full copy was, but withheld it, because they knew it was not the actual plea and sentence agreement handed to the magistrate in Milne s case on February 17 2004.Bennett said she and Porritt would report State advocates Etienne Coetzee, Jan Ferreira and Paul Louw to the General Council of the Bar of South Africa and demand a full investigation into their conduct.She referred to the case of Tigon former chairman Andries Geyser, whom she said was presented with a plea and sentence agreement drafted by the State in 2005. She said it contained a litany of incorrect statements which Geyser refused to sign, yet the State released such draft agreement to the press as being the document signed by Geyser. Bennett said Geyser in fact pleaded guilty to the far lesser charge of contravening the Companies Act, and not the charges in the draft agreement that bore no resemblance to the facts , were based on dishonesty and fraud, and implied our own guilt .She did not have the documents relating to the Geyser case available.Bennett said as laypersons, the accused are already severely prejudiced by the court s decision that the case had to proceed without them being represented, knowing that Porritt s legal team would be available in March.She said: The cumulative effect of such prejudice escalates on a daily basis. Bennett accused the court of double standards by ruling that the accused have to make statements under oath, while the State is allowed to make unsubstantiated statements from the bar .She said: In circumstances where the accused have already evidenced to this court that the prosecution have repeatedly made false and/or misleading statements to this and other courts, it is respectfully submitted that the imposition of such double standards compounds the prejudice to the accused. Spilg responded by pointing out that the State did not make statements, but submissions. He asked Bennett whether there was anything else about the way he conducted the case that bothered her.She responded: No, my Lord. You have been very fair to us. Spilg emphasised that he is not yet making any rulings or findings regarding the document.Coetzee told the court that the accused are trying to put the State on trial, as they have done before in other proceedings. He said all the allegations have largely been dealt with before.Spilg said Bennett s reference to on-going prejudice due to the way the prosecution is leading the case, indicates that the accused are building a case (of not being granted a fair trial).He said if need be, the State must be given the opportunity to fully respond to the allegations. At the moment the issue of prosecutorial bias relates to Milne s plea and sentence agreement. That might be resolved when we hear where it is. I reserve the issue of relevance (of the document),&#8221; he said.The case has been adjourned until Wednesday and the accused remain on bail.