Oil fell as OPEC members added supply and US producers increased drilling, threatening to compound a global surplus.Futures fell by as much as 1.5%. Output from OPEC member Libya expanded to 560,000 barrels a day, according to the National Oil Corp., up from 540,000 last week. Iran repeated plans to boost output to 4 million barrels a day. Rigs targeting crude rose for a seventh week to the highest since February, Baker Hughes Inc. said on its website. That followed the first gain in US stockpiles in six weeks.Oil has fluctuated near $50 a barrel amid speculation over the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to implement an agreement to reduce supply. An OPEC committee will meet later this month to try and resolve differences over how much individual members should pump. The details of how supply will be reduced need to be finalised by the group s next meeting in Vienna on November 30.&#8220;There s a growing recognition that OPEC will have a hard time getting their act together,&#8221; said Thomas Finlon, director of Energy Analytics Group LLC in Wellington, Florida.West Texas Intermediate for November delivery slipped 71 cents to $49.64 a barrel at 9:45 a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Total volume traded was 15% below the 100-day average.Rig count Brent for December fell 55 cents to $51.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The global benchmark crude traded at a $1.31 premium to December WTI.US producers added four rigs to 432 last week, Baker Hughes said Friday. Explorers have now added more than 100 rigs since a steady expansion began in June. The nation s crude inventories rose to 474 million barrels through October 7, according to data from the Energy Information Administration. That s the highest for that time of year since the EIA began publishing weekly data in 1982. The US rig count continues to grow, said Hamza Khan, an analyst at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam. The continual increase in the number of rigs does suggest that the upside in crude prices should be capped, with the threat of US oil output returning. Oil-market newsIran is seeking to pump 4 million barrels a day within two weeks, Ali Kardor, the managing director of National Iranian Oil Co., said at an energy conference. That compares with 3.89 million barrels a day now. India s billionaire Ruia brothers agreed to sell a 98% stake in their refinery unit to Russia s Rosneft PJSC and a consortium of Trafigura Group and United Capital Partners for about $13 billion. Iran is ramping up efforts to woo foreign investment to its energy industry, with a request for companies to submit documents to pre-qualify as bidders to develop the country s oil and natural gas fields. 2016 Bloomberg L.P