NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  Earlier we were talking about the PMI numbers and, according to the South African Chamber of Industries, the business confidence index fell slightly in September amid rand weakness, lower precious metal prices and a decline in share prices. I’m joined in the studio by Richard Downing, economist at the South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Richard, thank you so much for your time. RICHARD DOWNING:  Pleasure being here. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  Looking at the numbers and reading through the entire report, what can we take away from this, what stands out? RICHARD DOWNING:  First of all, at 90 one must compare it to 2015. The index is based on 2015 being 100. So it’s about 10 points down from there on average. And then if you look way back in about 2008/9, the index stood at about 144. So it just gives you an idea – we are 50 points lower than that. And then we further want to compare this figure, just to give us some perspective. In July 1985 it was last at this level. So it is not a good level to be at. You can remember, in 1985 the South African economy was going through a lot of things in terms of sanctions and all that. So we are at that stage. As you’ve already mentioned, the BCI, in terms of the sub-indices that we look at and combine into one index – in terms of the real economy we are looking at about seven indices that are important to business and which form the opinions and perspectives on what’s going on in the business environment. And the seven were actually positive on August. So it’s not all negative. But then, if we turn to the financial sub-indices, and six of the 13 are financial, there we see that there are no positives. That’s unfortunate. But fortunately there were some of them that didn’t deteriorate further – inflation stayed at about the same level, and then of course real financing costs. The central bank didn’t increase the repo rate. So on that side of things, things were a bit stable. If we turn to year on year, of course, the index is not where it was in September 2015. It’s way down 7.7 index points. We will always publish some economic commentary with this, because one must always look at the business within the context of the economy. And in the economic commentary this month we said okay, it’s not a good scene because there are lots of things – weather, politics, a lot of issues that are actually negative. The world economy is not doing well. But then within the South African economy, as also the world economy, there are a lot of problems with your supply side in the economy. We know we are only growing by about 0.6%, which is not nearly enough if you take the population growth into account. So people are actually losing out and per capita income is coming down. So that is negative to some extent. And then of course another problem is a lot of our subjects in the economy – like households, government, some investors. We are quite indebted. The consumer is heavily indebted – about 75% disposable income is debt at the moment. Servicing that debt is about 10% of your disposable income. So that makes it very difficult. Under circumstances where the economy is not growing you are losing jobs, so households are under pressure. And then government of course, we know, had a bit of a royal time, a lot of social expenditure where it has been pitching and it puts pressure on your government, on your revenue deficit and all that. And that’s where Minister Gordhan’s first stop will be – public finances and state-owned enterprises are the main sort of problem areas in the public finance arena. So that is a problem. Household debt I’ve mentioned. And then one of the most pressing things is actually fixed investment by business, also by government as such. We are not investing enough in the economy. You must have a certain level of capital in the economy to produce growth because you must [bring] together capital, labour and entrepreneurship and all of that to get growth. We are not at the required level in terms of fixed investment. Our fixed investment is about 20% of GDP at the moment and should be around 30%. That 10% sounds not much, but in terms of rand figures, it amounts to a helluva lot. We don’t produce enough savings in South Africa to finance that sort of investment. So we need foreign investment to a large extent – a very large extent, actually. So we have to have good relations with investors overseas as well as locally. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  Richard thank you so much for your time. I do agree with you in terms of the foreign investment and that is exactly what our Minister Pravin Gordhan is embarking on with his trips to London and New York.