An estimated 65% of mega projects fail because they are badly scoped, badly executed or simply too ambitious, according to research by the Construction Industry Institute. Sasol is up for the risk, betting part of its future on the successful execution of its Lake Charles Chemical Project – a mega project that aims to triple its chemical production capacity in the United States, strengthen its position in the growing global chemicals market, and deliver an additional $1.4 billion in Ebitda by 2020. At the heart of the project is an ethane cracker that will produce 1.5 million tons of ethylene annually, benefitting from significant economies of scale. The complex also includes six chemical manufacturing plants. About 90% of the cracker’s ethylene output will be converted into commodity and high-margin specialty chemicals and most of this will be sold in the USA. But as far as analysts are concerned, the company has already succumbed to mission creep following the announcement earlier this year that the project would cost US$11 billion, $2.1 billion ahead of previously projected figures. Should investors expect further creep? Sasol argues that it has taken steps to mitigate the risks. These include the full-time deployment of three of its most experienced project managers to oversee engineering, procurement and construction. At the same time it has significantly sharpened its focus on cost and schedule delivery. The company is, like the proverbial Thanksgiving turkey, now past the point of no return. As of June 2016, Sasol had already invested $4.8 billion of the $11 billion budgeted. “Engineering is about 85% complete, procurement of equipment almost 100% committed, and bulk materials procurement around two-thirds committed,” said Sasol joint CEO Bongani Nqwababa, on the sidelines of a media visit to the Lake Charles Chemical Project (LCCP). “We are confident that we can stick to the cost and schedule provided by the review.” Critically, with the site and civil work now complete, the operations are less exposed to adverse weather. “In the last year, Louisiana has experienced 50% more rain than the ten-year average,” says Stephan Schoeman, Sasol’s executive VP: Technology. “In a calendar month up to 20 days could be lost – and then you lose additional days pumping the water away.” A tightly knit team of 30 Sasol people is leading the project. They include the engineers and project managers that delivered the Oryx GTL plant in Qatar, among others. Beyond this team, another 2000 engineers – from Sasol and its partners – are dedicated to the project. But throwing engineers at a project, as brilliant as they may be, will not guarantee success. According to the CII research, the reasons that mega-projects fail also includes poor organisation and internal communication, poor governance and problems with stakeholders, as well as problems with planning, logistics and execution. “Sasol has done detailed planning,” says Fleetwood Grobler, VP of Sasol’s chemical business. This includes issues like technology, access to feedstock, the potential market, project controls and the ever-important issue of financing, he says. “We believe the fundamentals are sound and the economics are robust.” Projects of this scale are not new to Sasol. Lake Charles, built over 2200 acres, is an integrated chemicals complex much like Secunda, Sasol’s sprawling fuels and chemicals complex in South Africa. This was built between 1976 and 1984 and is the current site of considerable investment and expansion as part of the Secunda growth project. LCCP is being built in Southwest Louisiana, the heart of the US’s oil and gas belt, to take advantage of the abundance of low-cost ethane, says Grobler. Well developed transportation networks – rail, road, river and pipeline – will facilitate the easy export of product, and skilled labour is abundant. Logistics is a massive issue when you are transporting equipment that weighs 1500 tons and is up to 95 metres long. Sasol has dredged the river and upgraded the dock near to the site. It has widened and strengthened the roads, raised power cables and established both a cement plant and sand quarry on its site.  First equipment being set (acetylene reactors in Cracker area) Source: Sasol Stakeholder engagement is massive, explains Shane Macnamara, Sasol’s project manager: derivatives. The city of Westlake in which the chemical complex is situated (along with 14 other industrial plants) is home to 5000 people. Sasol learnt this early. The company offered to buy the properties of residents of Mossville  – one of the first settlements for free Blacks in the country – and it became a political hot potato that required intense management at the time. Environmental factors are also an issue. Part of the LCCP site falls on a wetland. To mitigate this, Sasol has agreed to rehabilitate double the wetland area on another part of its site. Execution on a project that involves over 4000 workers on site and over a million individual items in the materials management system cannot be under-estimated. One indication of how tight the controls are, could be the fact that the plant is on track for 12.5 million incident-free work-hours – a feat that Sasol is proud of, Macnamara says. The LCCP funding strategy (debt and equity) has not changed as a result of the higher capital expenditure estimate and the schedule for completion is on track. The project is fully funded in USD, with a $1.8 billion funding headroom. The first unit, the linear low-density polyethylene unit, is expected to achieve beneficial operation in the second half of 2018, followed by the ethane cracker and three of the derivative units. This will result in over 80% of the total output from LCCP reaching beneficial operation by early 2019. The remaining units will reach beneficial operation by the second half of 2019. The company remains convinced that the LCCP is a sound strategic investment. “While the expected return is close to our weighted average cost of capital, we have been conservative in our financial modeling,” says Nqwababa. “For instance, we estimated the base price of ethane over the life of the plant at 50-55cents per gallon, a level more than double that of some of our competitors and more than double the current price. For every 10c/g movement in ethane price from the base assumption, IRR is impacted by about 1%.” In addition, he says, we have not factored in additional investments, which will add to the top line, at very little additional cost. “Once the project is in beneficial operation and if for some reason we are not satisfied with the returns compared to other investment opportunities, then we review capital allocation and our options.”  Storage tanks Arial view of project site Cooling water tower and pipe bridge Cracker area Cracker furnaces Ethylene oxide reactor foundation Interconnection pipe rack foundations Pipe rack being prepped for placement Storage tanks Arial view of project site