A Moneyweb reader sent the following question:I pay R16 000 in income tax per year. If I take out a new retirement annuity (RA) and start contributing to it, how would that reduce my annual tax burden going forward? I&#8217;m 72 years old now and have enough to get by on a monthly basis. I have no debt; all my kids are married and are out of the house. I only have to worry about my hubby and I. I m able to contribute to an RA and would like to know how to structure this to get the maximum tax rebate possible? Mduduzi Luthuli, co-founder and an executive director of Luthuli Capital, answers:The above is a fantastic question. Your current income, along with your question, tells me that you take your retirement savings very seriously. I must commend you for this. South Africa needs more people with your attitude towards their retirement savings. A sad statistic is less than 6% of South Africans retire with a retirement savings sufficient to maintain their standard of living. Most South Africans face financial difficulty in their golden years &#8211; a really cruel and sad fate.Before I touch on the tax advantages that contributing to an RA offers, I must first note your age. You stated you re 72 years old now; to my knowledge most RAs have a maximum entry age of 69 years old. I stand to be corrected on this fact but I m yet to come across an RA with a higher entry age. I hope this fact doesn t deter you in pursuing means to actively grow and maintain your life-savings. Speak to a wealth manager to better understand what options are still available to you.That being said, you still ask a very relevant and important question so allow me to briefly touch on the tax benefits of contributing towards an RA. There are three tax benefits: The above tax benefits are as close as you get to a free lunch; that, and diversification of your portfolio. Why is that, you may ask? Well, think about. In an RA you have an investment vehicle that gives you the following 3 attributes:&nbsp;The above are just some of the reasons savings towards your retirement income is best done through an RA. I hope I ve made my point and if I haven t convinced you yet, book an appointment with a Wealth Manager, such as myself, and let s further discuss the great benefits of an RA.