JOHANNESBURG Over the last ten years global government bond yields have declined from roughly 8% to about 1%, with some now offering negative yields.In the past, investors could have invested in global government bonds and although returns weren t particularly attractive, they would have received a real return without taking on risk.But with Central Banks introducing quantitative easing programs and deliberately keeping rates low, asset owners have effectively been left with two choices if they want the return they have become accustomed to, they need to move further down the risk curve. If they don t want to take on more risk, they have to settle for a lower return. It is not a great option for people to choose from, says Matthew Spencer, head of Orbis Investment Counsellor Group at Orbis.Effectively, the risk-return paradigm has shifted.Against this background a lot of asset owners have argued that since they are not getting a real return from cash or bonds it would be prudent to replace these investments with investments in stable equities utilities, telecoms and consumer staples. As a result household names like Unilever, Coca-Cola and Procter &amp; Gamble have been popular investments in the US.These companies have steady revenues, profits and dividend yields. It is a great idea, if you got there first. Unfortunately everybody s had this idea, and they have attracted a huge amount of capital. Their share prices have been pushed up. They have gone from fairly priced, to expensive to now extremely expensive. At the same time, many asset owners are arguing that they should reduce their risk and have been selling emerging market stocks. As a result a number of specific companies in emerging markets have become cheaper.Spencer says Orbis is finding far more opportunities in emerging markets than in stable US stocks.S&amp;P 500For some time, Orbis has argued that US equities is expensive.The chart below shows the price-to-earnings and price-to-revenue ratio of the S&amp;P 500 over the last 30 years.Spencer says the 30-year median price-to-revenue ratio is about 1.9 times. At the moment it is trading at 2.9 times, a significant premium.Source: OrbisUsing weekly data since September 1986, the chart below shows what the subsequent 5-year return for the S&amp;P 500 has been for a given price-to-revenue ratio.Source: OrbisSpencer says when the US market was relatively cheap and the price-to-revenue ratio was around 1.5 times investors were pretty sure that they would get positive real returns over the next five years. At around 2 times, investors have had positive returns over the following five years, but in some instances they also experienced negative returns. Look at where we are now. There hasn t been a single time when the S&amp;P 500 has been this expensive on a price-revenue basis that the subsequent five years has given positive real returns, he says.Spencer believes investors should stay away from low volatility stocks in the US, but shouldn t go ploughing into emerging markets indiscriminately either. What we are saying is there are opportunities in emerging markets, but you need to do your homework. You need to go in there, look at the opportunity set, understand the companies, their product, their management, the debt that they carry and only invest in those stocks where there is an asymmetrical risk-reward payoff, but most importantly a good preservation of your capital if you get it wrong. 