National Treasury will play its role with regard to government decisions for nuclear procurement, to ensure nothing happens to the detriment of the country, deputy minister of finance Mcebisi Jonas said at a media briefing before the Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement (MTBPS).Finance minister Pravin Gordhan added that Treasury is part of one government under one Constitution and one Public Finance and Management Act. He said like all allocations for money, decisions about nuclear spend will be made using a collaborative approach, seeking solutions and providing all is done within the law.In its discussion of investment in electricity infrastructure, National Treasury in the MTBPS however not once mentioned nuclear, but punts renewable energy together with gas to provide base load electricity supply. In the budget in February, R200 million was allocated for preparatory work for nuclear procurement &#8211; including setting up a project office &#8211; but no further allocations were made in the MTBPS. This comes as government recently decided that Eskom, rather than the Department of Energy, should be the procuring agent for the country s 9 600MW nuclear new build programme.The release of a request for proposals (RFP) was expected at the end of September, after being postponed in March, but energy minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson stated that the Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) should be updated first. The IRP is government s long-term energy road map. Eskom executive for generation Matshela Koko has expressed a different view, arguing that the RFP should be used to get updated cost estimates to inform the IRP.While the timelines are unclear, government seems set on proceeding with nuclear procurement, despite widespread concern over the affordability.National Treasury in the MTBPS also warns about the possibility of over-investment in electricity generation. It says further investment in electricity generation capacity will be guided by the IRP and the Integrated Energy Plan, which should be alert to the risk of over-investment . It says over supply of generation capacity would result in higher electricity tariffs, which would negatively impact economic growth. National Treasury says government has worked hard to stabilise Eskom and increase the role of independent power producers (IPPs). The IPP programme was initially focused on renewable energy, but is being expanded to include gas and coal projects.The MTBPS specifically states that the IRP should take into account the falling cost of renewables and their possible use in generating baseload electricity .Quoting from the 2016 Renewables Global Status Report , investment in renewable energy has exceeded investment in new fossil fuel generation worldwide since 2014. The majority of these investments were made in developing countries as financing has become more readily available thanks to the declining cost of renewable energy and modular building options. National Treasury points out the success of South Africa s renewable IPP programme with 2 200MW of the 6 376MW procured already connected to the grid.IPPs have attracted R194 billion of investment and created almost 27 000 jobs. Since the inception of the programme, the average cost per kWh has dropped by 67.4c and has rendered wind and solar photovoltaic generation cost competitive with new gas and coal options.Treasury refers to progress with gas and coal IPP procurement. Between 2019 and 2025 the Department of Energy will procure 3 726MW in its gas-to-power programme that will also stimulate the gas market. The coal baseload IPP programme is aimed at procuring 2 500MW of coal generation capacity and the winning bidders for the first 863.3MW to be delivered in the next five years were announced earlier this month. Case studies in Denmark, Australia, Portugal and the UK have shown that renewable generation can meet energy demand, including baseload. Connecting geographically-dispersed plants to the grid and supplementing it with flexible technologies like gas can overcome the intermittent nature of renewables, National Treasury says.Government guarantees currently stand at R469.9 billion, with R263 billion of the facilities having been drawn. This includes R170 billion of Eskom debt that carries a government guarantee. Over and above these guarantees, government also has contingent liabilities of R200 billion that relate to IPPs.The MTBPS states: Eskom is obliged to purchase power from these independent producers over a 20-year period based on a power-purchase agreement approved by the National Energy Regulator of South Africa. Should Eskom be unable to do this, government must purchase the power on Eskom s behalf. After interventions that resulted in stabilisation Eskom, the risk of the entity defaulting default with the IPP guarantee is low, especially as the regulator fully provides for IPP costs in the Eskom tariff determinations, Treasury states. However, a deterioration in Eskom s financial position would increase the risk of both exposures. Asked during the media briefing about Eskom s reluctance to sign further power purchase agreements with IPPs, National Treasury director general Lungisa Fuzile said current contracts with IPPs are binding. I know of nothing at the moment that can result in these contingent liabilities becoming actual liabilities. Regarding future contracts, he said both National Treasury and Eskom are bound by the current IRP and this would only change when an updated version of the policy document has been finalised.Jonas agreed, saying, Policy is driven by government, not by State-owned companies. He said National Treasury would meet with Joemat-Pettersson and public enterprises minister Lynne Brown to ensure alignment on the matter.