The Hawks issued a summons on minister of finance Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday morning at his house and at National Treasury, for charges related to the contravention of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Moneyweb has been informed that the charges do not relate to the so-called ‘rogue unit’ that operated within the South African Revenue Service (Sars). The rand reacted swiftly, depreciating by more than 3.52% after the news became public, hitting a low of R14.2913 against the US dollar. By 13:17 the rand had recovered somewhat to trade at R14.2722 against the dollar. The currency also lost 2.57% against the pound at R17.4552 and 2.97% against the euro at R15.8142.  The JSE paused its upward trajectory on the day, moving steadily down after the news broke. At 13:03, the JSE All Share was up 0.63% at 51999.51 points and the Top40 up 0.9% at 45525.82 points. The Financial index was down 1.96% at 39593.85. “The Hawks went to his house and Treasury. They issued a summons which was accepted by the Treasury’s legal team,” a person close to the case confirmed to Moneyweb. The charges apparently relate to Ivan Pillay, the former acting commissioner of Sars, and Gordhan’s approval of his early retirement and his re-appointment on a contract. The charges also related to a shortfall of R1.4 million related to the pension payout to Pillay. “The charges related to corruption and fraud, but there is nothing about the rogue unit. They all related to PFMA violations.” Reuters says Gordhan confirms that prosecutors delivered a summons to his house for him appear in court on November 2. “It looks like we are in a bit of excitement going forward,” it quotes Gordhan as saying. Stephen Grootes of Eye Witness News earlier tweeted that former Sars commissioner Oupa Magashula and Pillay were also charged.   Reuters reports that the cost of insuring exposure to South African debt leapt to three-month highs on Tuesday and dollar bond prices fell after the news. Data from Markit showed that five-year credit default swaps (CDS) for South Africa rose more than 13 basis points (bps) on the day to 264.6 bps, the highest since July 11. South African dollar bonds also fell across the curve by as much as 2.2 cents, according to Tradeweb, to the lowest since end-June. Ramaphosa: investigation must avoid rattling investors Prior to the announcement, Reuters quoted Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa as saying an investigation into South Africa’s finance minister must take its course but needs to avoid rattling investors. Ramaphosa, said that while “nobody is above the law”, the way the situation has been handled by State institutions was a cause of “concern”. “Nothing must be done to cause problems or difficulties in state institutions such as the treasury and also cause an imbalance on our economic future,” Ramaphosa told reporters at the end of a three-day official visit to Singapore. “So it is very important that whatever we do, we must be very, very careful … that we don’t threaten investors because it will cause a lot of angst and concern among the people of South Africa”. “We want a more stabilised, stronger rand  stronger than it has been in recent weeks to make imports more affordable,” Ramaphosa said.”We import diesel, petrol, machinery and it costs the country quite a lot.” Watch eNCA’s live broadcast of the NPA briefing:    Follow social media’s reaction: 