Gains in new money and a shift from personal to commercial insurance underpin PSG Konsult ‘pleasing’ interim results, achieved in spite of challenging business conditions and sluggish economic growth in South Africa. For the six months to August 31 2016, the financial services group grew recurring headline earnings per share by 13% to 16.6 cents, and total assets under management by 18% to R167 billion. This led to a 16% increase in its gross interim dividend to 5.1 cents per share. Subsidiaries PSG Wealth and PSG Insure led growth, with PSG Asset Management only managing a 2% increase in headline earnings. According to CEO Francois Gouws, equity market-dependent businesses – including that of its competitors – have been affected by relatively flat markets which, coupled with high inflation, affected fee generation. “Growth at wealth management was wholly due to gains in net new money,” he said of PSG Wealth’s performance. Headline earnings at PSG Wealth grew by 17% to over R140 million. Wealth-managed assets rose 21% to R139 billion, “which include record net inflows of R8.2 billion in the past months”. Platform and multi-managed assets increased by 29% and 24% to R37.5 billion and R52 billion respectively. Management fee income increased by 20%, with the division relying more on recurring income than transactional brokerage. Gouws said declining transactional brokerage volumes were in line with the events playing out across global markets. Lower performance fees and a decision to exit white labels saw interim headline earnings at PSG Asset Management tick up to R47.4 million. “Our decision to exit was vindicated by the series of events surrounding African Bank,” he said of the previously-communicated decision, which limited exposure to the failed bank. PSG Insure’s 29% increase in headline earnings to R214 million, was driven by the business’s shift from highly-commoditised personal insurance lines to commercial lines. Gouws said around 60% of the business comprises commercial lines, which plays to its strengths, and specialist adviser expertise. The business achieved a net underwriting margin of 7.8%. Gouws said PSG Konsult would continue to grow through its “brick-by-brick, inch-by-inch, step-by-step” approach and that acquisitions, if any, would be incremental rather than transformational. He said confidence in the business is steadily reflected by client numbers and franchise growth. As at August 31 2016, the group had 207 offices and 738 advisers.