Oil rose from a three-week low following a report that Gulf nations may be willing to cut output as OPEC members weigh a deal to ease a supply glut.Prices climbed as much as 1.5% in New York. Reuters reported Saudi Arabia and its Gulf OPEC allies are willing to cut 4% from their peak oil output, citing sources familiar with the matter. OPEC Secretary-General Mohammed Barkindo urged members to show maximum flexibility to agree on output cuts, after saying Tuesday the group is facing its hardest challenge.Oil has fluctuated near $50 a barrel amid uncertainty about whether the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries can implement its first output cuts in eight years at an official gathering in November. An OPEC committee will meet this week to try to resolve differences over how much individual members should pump, after Iraq joined the list of countries seeking an exemption from caps. There is a report that the Saudis and their Gulf compatriots are willing to cut output by 4%, John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy, said by telephone. Whether that s enough or not, we ll see. There s increasing amounts of skepticism in this market, which is keeping prices near these multi-week lows. West Texas Intermediate for December delivery advanced 56 cents to $49.74 a barrel at 11:21 a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract slid 78 cents to $49.18 on Wednesday, the lowest close since October 4.Brent for December settlement increased 59 cents, or 1.2%, to $50.57 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, trading at a 83-cent premium to WTI. OPEC plea Speaking from Iraq, OPEC s Barkindo said he would work with members to overcome the challenges and uncertainties of the market and urged them to be accommodating to achieve an agreement. Meanwhile, Algeria s Energy Minister Noureddine Boutarfa said there s no turning back on the Algiers deal and that the group s November 30 summit will fix quotas. The market continues to search for direction in the $45 to low-$50 range, Michael D. Cohen, the head of energy commodities research at Barclays Capital in New York, said by telephone. As we get closer and closer to the OPEC meeting, producers are going to try to both manage market expectations in the case of a failure and also try to stake out their positions. An EIA report on Wednesday showed that US Gulf Coast crude stockpiles increased by 2 million barrels last week and East Coast supplies also expanded. While West Coast inventories declined, pushing down the nationwide total, that region s distribution system is isolated from the rest of the country and changes in stockpiles in that area are often dismissed by the market.Oil-market newsOil is likely to reach $30 a barrel before $60, ING Bank NV s Head of Commodity Strategy Hamza Khan said in a Bloomberg Television interview. Kazakhstan will take part in OPEC/non-OPEC talks on October 29, Interfax said. Nigeria s oil output will rise to 2 million barrels a day from the current 1.8 million after the return of exports from the nation s Forcados terminal, according to Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Emmanuel Kachikwu Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage fell in Europe s Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, according to PJK International BV. 2016 Bloomberg L.P