NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  As mentioned, we are discussing the best shares to buy for your employees and Riaz Gardee joins us in the studio. He’s an investment principal at MMI Holdings. Riaz, thank you so much for your time. RIAZ GARDEE:  Thank you. Good evening to you and your listeners. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  Looking at the general BEE stocks, I know earlier in the year there was concern that they could be coming under a bit of pressure. So far what has been their performance in that space? RIAZ GARDEE:  I think it’s important to note that the shares represent the underlying investments. So they will mirror and correlate to the underlying investments. For example, the MTN BEE shares, Zakhele, have come down and that’s because MTN itself has come down. In the previous report Wayne McCurrie was talking about the volatility of the market, and that will be mirrored in all of these BEE shares. So it’s important to understand that anyone who wants to get into that must be prepared for the volatility. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  I know tonight we are talking about Welkom Yizani, we are talking about Phuthuma Nathi, YeboYethu and MTN Zakhele. When you look at the performance of those, which would a person like me choose to hold or possibly get into? RIAZ GARDEE:  I think again it comes down to first principles, so for a person like you. That’s a good point. I think each investor needs to define their investment objectives, and everyone has different needs. You may have needs for education or for a car or for a child or so. That will determine the term of your investment. That’s an important point. Most of these BEE schemes will run for many more years to come. In the example MTN Futhi will be another eight years. So if you are not prepared to leave the investment for eight years and you require the money before that, that won’t be an investment for you. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  What I’m hearing here is that most of these BEE shares have an underlying component where you have to hold on for the long term because that’s your way of building wealth? RIAZ GARDEE:  Yes, exactly. I think that’s a good summary. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  I know people talk of Sasol Inzalo – I’ve read a lot about that. How has that been performing so far? RIAZ GARDEE:  That hasn’t performed as well because of the movement of the oil price. As you know, the oil price has been quite erratic. At a point in time the price went up, correlating with Sasol, and it’s come down again. But the scheme only ends in 2018, so most of the people are probably waiting for the scheme to unlock. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  I’ve heard two terms, where they will say something along the lines of shares that are leveraged and not leveraged. When we are talking those two terms, what are we stipulating? RIAZ GARDEE:  Sasol, for example, has two shares – one a leveraged and one an unleveraged share. All that means is the one has debt. Leverage is basically the debt component; so basically the company used debt to buy those shares. Before you can access the money, they would need to pay off the debt, whereas the unleveraged share has no debt, so you would directly get those shares. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  Okay. What are some of the critical success factors there contributing to some of the shares we are talking about tonight? RIAZ GARDEE:  Leverage has played a role because, as you know, leverage allows you to gear up, so it goes both ways. If the share price performs well the leverage will allow you to multiply upwards or downwards. And then the second thing is the underlying business. So Phuthuma Nathi has done very well because the underlying business, DStv in essence, has performed exceptionally well and the shareholders there would have seen phenomenal returns. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  The topic tonight is employers buying shares for their employees as an added benefit and to help them see where their money is going, building them wealth. Roughly how would that work, because generally you would probably go to an investment advisor and tell them this is what you want to do. So what happens in the cases where your company now wants to do this for you. Say these are the top four that we are looking at – MTN Zakhele, YeboYethu – how would that process work? RIAZ GARDEE:  I think the company would need to determine, first of all, what it wants to do, which employees would benefit, how much money they would want to allocate to that, and then decide on how to allocate their funds. But typically I would think that the company would be reluctant to do that on behalf of employees and, if they were to do such a transaction, they would most likely have the employees have shares in that company, themselves, rather than taking their money and investing it in somewhere where they don’t have control. In that way the employees can feel they own part of the business and have a meaningful stake in its movements. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  What happens in cases where this has happened? You’ve bought, for instance, MTN Zakhele, and after two years you decide that you now want to work for another company, not the one that has helped you buy the shares. In cases like that is it that you now have to sit down with the employer, or can you continue with this investment, considering that it probably would take about eight years for anything to happen? RIAZ GARDEE:  Again, it will depend on the terms when they gave you those shares. So if it’s part of your employment, then it could be your shares to keep and deal with as you deem fit. But if it’s linked to employment then they could ask you to cede them to other employees or to dispose of them. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  What’s the common misconception that we’ve seen in terms of BEE shares? What are the key ones that stand out for you, which people don’t really understand? RIAZ GARDEE:  I think the common misconception is people don’t understand that the investment that they entered into depends on the underlying investment. So Zakhele will only do well if MTN does well, Inzalo will only do well if Sasol does well. I think a lot of people are not looking at the underlying investment that they hold, and just hope that it does well. In some cases they have been shielded because of the long periods of time or the leverage which has kept them safe. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: We’ve just received a text that came though, and the question is from Linda in Alberton. She asks: does an employer have a limitless number of shares that to buy? RIAZ GARDEE:  I think no. The short answer would be no because there is a finite amount of resources. So obviously it will be capped in terms of that. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  I know that we often talk about MTN Zakhele and some of the popular ones. But are there BEE shares that are sort of under the radar and which have potential to perform just as well? RIAZ GARDEE:  The ones that are under the radar as you said are smaller and they are more illiquid. So generally it would be more difficult to get into them and get out of them. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  We do have a caller on the line. It’s Cephas from Limpopo. Cephas, thank you so much for your time. CEPHAS:  Thank you, mam. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  What’s your question for Riaz? CEPHAS:  I want to know about the options for MTN Zakhele. RIAZ GARDEE:  You have three options. You can take a cash option, you can roll it over into the new scheme, or you can exit it. So it depends on what you want to do, and whether you need the money. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  Okay. So is that what happens at the end of the scheme, when it expires? You have those options. Which options do most shareholders pick? RIAZ GARDEE:  I think many of them are choosing to roll over into the new investment. What they are seeing is this has happened over the past, so if we carry on it’s likely that the same thing will happen. That’s not necessarily the case, but I think many people are doing that. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  This may sound like a silly question. If we are talking about BEE shares – say for instance we are talking about MTN on the JSE – why would I choose a BEE share as opposed to just having a share on the JSE? RIAZ GARDEE:  There is no such thing as a silly question, so that’s a good question. The reason is obviously the BEE shares are open only to BEE shareholders. So at times they may be trading at a discount. Then if you hold it to the end of the term you could benefit more in terms of the price when it merges into the one that is not open. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  Okay. We were talking a little earlier about employees and so on. For shares, how do you get to a point where we are disseminating the information, where people understand what is exactly happening and they are paying attention? It’s not one of those things where we were talking about MTN Zakhele because they have a trading issue or something is wrong with their platform and things like that. How do we make sure that we get that information out there? RIAZ GARDEE:  It starts from a young age. I think people need to be encouraged to be involved in saving; learn about investments and take an interest in the market, because that will feed into that interest in terms of learning and understanding and following the market. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  And for you personally – and I know you are in this space and you know a lot of what’s going on – which shares would you consider? RIAZ GARDEE:  That’s a tough question. Again, it’s so specific in terms of the individual and I think that’s a core principle which people don’t look at. You need to look at your own situation and your own circumstances and buy a share which suits you. If it’s not a share, there are a lot of other options. It doesn’t have to be BEE shares. It can be other shares or unit trusts or savings or anything. So I think the golden rule is tailor-make it to your own circumstances. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  So what I’m hearing is don’t particularly chase the share just because it’s popular and everybody is talking about it. You did mention considering the underlying principle, I suppose. But what other factors should I consider if I’m listening to the show tonight and I’m hearing you talk about YeboYethu, MTN Zakhele and all these shares and I want to now do my research. What should I be considering? RIAZ GARDEE:  You should consider how much money you have to invest and what the time period is for your investment. I think also important to know you have the ability and the information to do all of that. If you can’t, then you should speak to a financial advisor or you should ask the right questions. It could be quite easy to lose your money if you act hastily because other people are buying shares. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  In the medium to long term, where do you see the performance of some of these shares that mentioned – Phuthuma Nathi, YeboYethu, MTN Zakhele? RIAZ GARDEE:  I think that they will grow with the economy, so the pace of the economy and the markets in which they operate will dictate the growth. MTN, for example, has come off a high base, so the growth will probably be lower than it has been in the past ten years. And the others as well. I think they’ve already had a lot of growth factored in. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  I just want to understand, before I let you go, what is the process if the share expires and then you have the three options. The one option I do know is where it rolls over to a new share scheme. What goes into that? RIAZ GARDEE:  The new share scheme it’s basically a new deal. So if you don’t make any choice, they’ll pay you cash out. If you want to continue, you make the selection and then you are in the new scheme for another eight years. NASTASSIA ARENDSE:  We’ll have to leave it there. Thanks to Riaz Gardee, the investment principal at MMI Holdings.