National Treasury and the Department of Higher Education, together representing government, were determined to provide a united front on the subject of higher education funding.In a special address to media ahead of the medium term budget statement in Parliament, Ministers Jeff Radebe and Blade Nzimande, flanked by Pravin Gordhan, Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas, and the DG of National Treasury Lungisa Fuzile insisted that they heard student concerns loud and clear. That said, government is not deviating from the concessions previously announced by Nzimande. This is that government will fund the increase in fees at higher learning institutions for the 2017 academic year up to a maximum of 8%. This is for students from households earning up to R600 000 a year.Beyond this government is committed to the expansion of post-school education within available resources.In the 2016 budget, R5.6 billion was added to university subsidies to fund the zero percent fee increase for the 2016 academic year. The national student financial aid scheme (NSFAS) received an additional R10.6 billion over the 2016 MTEF period. Of this amount, R2.5 billion was allocated to the current year for short-term relief for 71 753 unfunded or inadequately funded students who were at universities between 2013 and 2015. The remainder is for unfunded new and continuing students for the 2016 academic year and beyond.It s worth mentioning that over the past five years expenditure on post-school education and training has grown faster than other budgets. Allocation has increased from 1% of GDP in 2008 to 1.5% today. However, most of this increase benefited vocational colleges, sector education and training authorities and the National Skills Fund, rather than universities. Subsidies to universities grow at 10.9% a year and transfers to NSFAS grow at 18.3%.However, government also acknowledges that the enrolment of academically deserving students from poor communities has grown faster than available funding.It now plans to correct its course, increase the number of graduates and improve teaching and research. Thus the 2016 MTBPS proposes that government accelerate the growth of spending on post-school education. I m delighted with the increased allocations to higher education, Nzimande said. It emphasises the significance of post-school education. However, we cannot focus on the universities only. We need a college sector that is three or four times the size of the university sector South Africa is short of mid-level skills. We need an ongoing dialogue on many issues related to transformation of the sector. Thus it s envisaged that they largest gains in student access will be in technical and vocational colleges where improved teaching and building better links with industry will be policy priorities.When it comes to resolving the financial crisis currently sinking universities across the country, Gordhan noted that Treasury had received five or six technical proposals detailing ways to resolve the funding problem. Some are from students, some from academics and some from the private sector. Treasury, he says, has already spent about fifteen hours in technical discussions on solutions to the problem. This is not a government that is not listening, he says. We want people who can get organised enough to come around the table so that we can talk about concrete solutions. Violence is not the solution. This current generation must be able to move on in life and they must work with us. These are the people who must come together to become the dominant voice in South Africa. 