Fees are a topical issue in South Africa, from #feesmustfall to fund management fees; it is an issue that is firmly on the national agenda.As a financial planner I am a lot more engaged with the issue of fund fees, although I hope that tertiary education fees will have indeed fallen by the time my kids finish school. Fees were recently under the spotlight with the decision from Treasury to exclude funds with performance fee structures from being used in tax free savings accounts. This decision seemed to be welcomed by most market participants.However, fees have been on the agenda for a while now, especially with the retirement and savings reforms being driven by Treasury. The rise in the popularity of index / passive funds has also resulted in more of a focus on fees. We have seen a number of active managers responding to this by lowering their fees. Today it is entirely possible for a retail investor to build a diversified portfolio with management fees lower than 0.60% p.a. This was unheard of just a few years ago, and is a trend that has benefitted investors more so than any other market participant. It is possible for a client to build a diversified growth portfolio at an all-in fee of around 1.3% p.a. That includes advice, administration and asset management fees. It was not too long ago that all-in fee funds were being offered to retail investors at 2.25% p.a.If you were to read articles from certain product providers that offer index / passive solutions to the institutional and retail markets, you could get the impression that fees are the most important issue for investors. Consecutive articles from one such product provider focused heavily on the issue of fees. While we agree that fees are an important issue, we do not believe that they are the most important issue. I imagine that if I were a product provider offering low cost product to the market, then I would certainly want everyone to believe it to be the most important issue.It is our belief that asset allocation is arguably a much more important issue with which investors should concern themselves. A while back I read a research paper with the somewhat clumsy title A comparative analysis of returns of various financial asset classes in South Africa; a triumph of bonds? by Auret &amp; Vivian (November 2014). The study looked at returns generated by equities, cash and bonds over the period 1987 to 2013. While the aim of the research was to demonstrate that equities were not necessarily a superior asset class compared to bonds, it was the asset allocation and market timing findings that caught my attention.The study looked at the performance of three asset classes from 1 January 1987 to 31 December 2012. It found that R1000 invested in equities grew to R49 226, while it grew to R42 384 in bonds and a miserly R21 506 in cash. But, if an investor had perfect foresight and invested in the best asset class each year, the R1000 would have grown to R660 493!The handbag fight over the impact of higher fees is essentially around how much of the R49 226 the equity investor will capture on an after-fee basis. I would argue that the investor could be significantly better off if he or she honed their asset allocation skills instead and chased down more of the R660 493. Numerous multi asset class funds (where the fund manager makes asset allocation decisions on behalf of investors within certain guidelines) have outperformed equities over the medium and long term. The Allan Gray Balanced fund (not a cheap fund by any stretch of the imagination) has outperformed the equity market by a proverbial country mile, after fees, since inception 17 years ago. Other multi asset funds managed by the so-called big four, and a number of boutique managers, have also outperformed equity markets over various periods. Through good asset allocation decisions these managers were able to capture all of the R49 226, and some of the R660 493. I would argue that an expensive, well managed asset allocation fund could outperform a cheap equity index tracker on an after fee basis over time.Don t get me wrong, I am not advocating for investors to buy expensive asset allocation funds. I am also not anti-index/passive funds. On the contrary, in 2010/11 we lobbied no less than two major linked investment service providers to make index / passive funds available so that we could include them in client portfolios! At least 20% of our investment book is invested in index / passive managed funds. We have engaged with numerous providers of index / passive product to get them to launch certain products that we thought would be useful in the retail investment market. I ve also written on this platform defending the honour of one Satrix Dividend Plus fund, and taken abuse for doing so. However, we feel that we need to contribute to the debate as it seems to be focusing too heavily on the fee aspect.When it comes to asset allocation, the likes of Allan Gray and Foord have long and enviable track records. Clyde Rossouw of Investec has also built up a reputation as a skilled asset allocator. Managers such as Prudential, PSG, Truffle, Centaur, Laurium and Rezco have good medium term track records, while the likes of Obsidian and ClucasGray s Andrew Vincent have had promising starts with their multi asset funds.Index / passive product providers such as Satrix, Sygnia, 10x and Nedgroup also offer multi asset funds to the retail market. Returns have differed meaningfully when you compare their funds to each other, driving home the point that asset allocation is indeed an important factor in delivering returns. Despite the fact that they all have relatively cheap multi asset funds, they have performed differently to each other, meaning that low cost is not automatically a ticket to riches. However, they have relatively short track records so their asset allocation skill has not been proven to the same extent as some of their active management peers. Nedgroup s multi asset high equity unit trust has the longest track record of the passive offerings, and it is highly competitive.Yes, fees are important. No, they are not the most important issue.One of the most disappointing things about the broader active versus passive debate is that it seems to be forcing investors to take sides. These are not soccer teams; it is perfectly fine to support both sides, as we do. It is arguably more important for investors to ensure that their portfolio is aligned to their objectives and risk tolerance, and that they keep their behaviours in check during periods of low returns and volatility. If they can do that, at a good price, they will likely achieve their investment goals.Craig Gradidge is an investment specialist at Gradidge-Mahura Investments