Most medical aids have launched their benefits and premium contributions for 2017 and, as in the past, the increases passed on to members are double figures, which outstrip inflation.Bear in mind that your actual increase may be somewhat different because often these are weighted and vary from option to option or even from dependant to dependant. The medical aid landscape can be tricky to navigate. So now, more than ever, is the time to learn how to box smart to ensure that you maximise the value you derive from your medical scheme benefits. Dr Bobby Ramasia, Principal Officer of Bonitas Medical Fund, provides some insight into maximising the benefits on your chosen medical aid.Understand your benefitsTake the time to read the information sent to you by the scheme and/or your broker. If you have access to information sessions at your place of work, or have a consultant who visits your workplace, attend the sessions to get a better understanding.Getting the best out of your hospital cover:Chronic illness benefits:In terms of the Medical Schemes Act, there are 26 common chronic illnesses which all options on all schemes are required to cover for medication and treatment. However, here too, schemes have the ability to apply measures designed to contain costs.So, the golden rule for chronic illness benefits is to try to utilise the medication on your scheme s formulary and to obtain this from a specified pharmacy. Many medical schemes also cover additional chronic illnesses although this is usually from the more expensive options if your particular condition is not covered on your current option it is worth further investigation. It s important to understand that this cover is at the scheme s discretion and the additional conditions covered vary from scheme to scheme.Know your rightsIn terms of a High Court ruling, Medical Schemes are obliged to meet the cost of xxx in-hospital Prescribed Minimum Benefit procedures at cost, in full. Make sure you know what in full means so you don t get any surprises. So if you have been admitted to hospital, check with your doctor if it s for one of these procedures. If so, as a general rule, you shouldn t be saddled with any shortfalls so ask for your broker /consultant s assistance if you are! Why you might have co-paymentsA medical aid co-payment is a fee that the member is liable for when making use of certain medical services. The medical aid would not cover 100% of the costs and the member would have to pay for a certain percentage of the medical service before the medical aid pays their portion.These co-payments usually apply to specialist or elective medical procedures. This will differ from one medical aid scheme to another. It is one of the reasons you should always do thorough research before deciding which medical aid scheme is the best option for you. The ideal option would, of course, be the one that does not require many or any co-payments from the member.If your benefits and/or savings were exhausted before the end of the year and had to pay out-of-pocket for some medical expenses; it might save you money if you upgrade to a richer plan with more benefits albeit at a higher contribution amount. Conversely, if you are young, healthy and generally did not utilise your benefits and/or savings, it may be prudent to downgrade to a cheaper medical aid optionTalk to your providersTalk to your doctor/specialist before being admitted to hospital for a planned procedure. Check what they are going to be charging and what your scheme will cover. If there is a large difference don t be afraid to approach your doctor to see if they are prepared to adjust their fee, especially if you could afford to pay upfront.