JOHANNESBURG Despite limited inflows, assets under management in the local hedge fund industry grew 10.5% to R68.6 billion in the year through June, a new survey shows.According to Eugene Visagie, head of hedge fund investments at Novare Investments, the increase was mainly on the back of strong capital growth.Visagie spoke at the release of the 13th edition of the Novare Hedge Fund Survey on Thursday. Very, very few local hedge fund managers actually saw new inflows into their funds. We are of the opinion this could be because the industry is in this transition phase. Regulations were amended last year and from April 2015 hedge funds are classified as collective investment schemes. Hedge fund managers may have been reluctant to take on new investors knowing that structures could change within a few months.Compared to the roughly R2 trillion invested in the unit trust environment R68.6 billion remain a small number. Africa s largest asset manager, the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), has around R1.8 trillion of assets under management. The PIC is responsible for the management of the Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF). So you can clearly see that this is a very, very small portion of the overall savings environment and there is still a lot of opportunity and possibility for this &#8216;asset class&#8217; to grow. The chart below shows the growth in hedge fund assets over the past 15 years. Asset growth was slow during 2008 to 2012.Source: Novare Hedge Fund Survey 2016 Visagie said hedge funds were previously an unregulated environment and there was uncertainty in the institutional space about the classification of these investments. Regulation 28, that caps the allocation of local pension fund assets to certain asset classes, was amended in 2011 and it took quite a while for institutional investors to increase allocations to hedge funds. Pension funds can invest up to 10% of their assets in hedge funds.Retail investors haven t been a big investor in the local space, mainly due to structures and the complexities of accessing the portfolios.Since 2013 there has been significant growth in assets.Apart from the amendment to Regulation 28, another big contributor has been inflows from offshore investors.Visagie said because of the strong bull market South Africa experienced in recent years, institutional investors could also increase their allocation to hedge funds as an absolute number. We do anticipate stronger growth in this new regulated environment, he added.Due to the new regulations retail investors can now invest in hedge fund portfolios through the same structures used in the unit trust space.Visagie said at the same time some institutional investors have been quite hesitant to invest because there wasn t a level playing field one hedge fund manager would use a partnership structure, another a sort of debenture, but the use of the collective investment scheme trust structure means there is additional oversight and more assets are ring-fenced And of course the volatility is very beneficial for these sort of funds. PerformanceEspecially offshore, there have been multiple studies that show smaller hedge funds outperform larger hedge fund managers.Since the survey started to include a section on performance over the last six to seven years, hedge fund managers with more than R2 billion in assets have always outperformed their peers, but during the past year the situation changed.Relatively smaller hedge fund managers with assets of between R1 billion and R2 billion and R500 million and R1 billion have outperformed managers with assets in excess of R2 billion (see graph below). We can see the R2 billion asset managers struggling in this sort of volatility. Source: Novare Hedge Fund Survey 2016 Visagie said an asset manager with a hedge fund portfolio of more than R2 billion will not be able to move in and out of positions as quickly as someone with between R1 billion and R2 billion in assets.This may in part inform decisions to hard close a fund (not take on any new assets). Becoming too big means that the manager can t efficiently short the market, can t efficiently buy mid or small caps and can t efficiently move in and out of specific sectors and holdings.The FTSE/JSE All Share Index delivered a return of 3.8% over the survey period and the All Bond Index 5.2%.Fifty-three asset managers participated in the survey. The survey focused on single-manager, South African domiciled hedge funds that invest predominantly in South African financial markets.