As if tracking gravity, shares in Mediclinic International Plc started off on a weak note on Monday after a notable fall in September. Responding to a trading update that revealed earnings disappointment in the Middle East sellers have amputated 12% of the private hospital network s value since. The fact that it is a well-diversified, solid empire couldn t staunch a losing streak that has seen market cap shaving a massive R16 billion as the blue chip ended September at R165.75 per share.At current levels, Mediclinic, now valued at R122 billion in market cap, has bled a quarter of its value on the JSE from its R218 per share all-time high it hit in June. The UAE now accounts for around a third of group net profit since the Al Noor transaction struck last year. So, any earnings disappointment in the UAE now has a significant impact on group earnings, asserts Argon Asset Management head of equities Junaid Bray.Even before that update, JPMorgan had downgraded Mediclinic s stock in London to neutral . Investec and Deutsche Bank have also cut their ratings. The sentiment pervades, says Bray. Last week, New York broker Jefferies Group reiterated it expected Mediclinic to keep falling. That is bad for its shareholders, no less Remgro which owns 42% of the hospital empire and has splurged billions on it in recent times to pursue rights issues.Mediclinic reverse-listed in London in February, after swallowing rival Al-Noor. Last year the Stellenbosch firm acquired 29.9% of London-listed Spire through a 432 million deal. Within months, Mediclinic, under CEO Danie Meintjes, presented its investors with a steep 1.8 billion (or R33 billion at current exchange rate) bill for these two assets. The behemoth struck its first major offshore deal in 2008 when it took Hirslanden, an asset-rich Swiss hospital group that set it back R17 billion.At home, eight of the 15 analysts polled by Bloomberg rated the health-care play a hold while the remainder were split between buy and sell . So, despite heavy losses, Mediclinic is hardly a must-buy. Its price:earnings ratio of 32, even as sellers hold sway, suggests the counter remains expensive compared to peers Life Healthcare and Netcare (both at around 20). Their stocks ended the month on a flat note while their Stellenbosch rival crashed 14%.Judging by its PE, Bray is convinced Mediclinic s prospects are overstated. Whilst we feel that Mediclinic should trade at a premium to its South African peers, we feel the current substantial premium is unjustified, he says.As to why Mediclinic s losing streak was already in motion before the September 9 trading update, Sasfin senior equities analyst Alec Abraham cites market talk that the hospital group was making a play for the rest of Spire or the 70.1% it doesn t own in that British firm. For some investors, he explains, this talk is worrisome as it could hail another rights issue. The problem with this route is that it can be viewed as value dilutive , he asserts.Meanwhile, an unnamed source told Financial Times there was no truth to the story . A look at how the stock runs implies punters beg to differ. Nobody is sure how Brexit will affect prospects, says Abraham. Netcare whose footprint includes Lesotho and Britain (where its subsidiary, BMI Healthcare, is the largest) is viewed as a Brexit casualty , according to Cape-based broker Afena Capital.Much as a mix of earnings disappointment and the market&#8217;s concerns of another Spire transaction, Meintjes group remains a bellwether. Of the three hospital groups, Mediclinic has the largest contribution from foreign operations. Netcare and Life have fewer rand hedge qualities and are seen as relatively less defensive shares due to having lower geographical diversification, observes Bray. Life has the most attractive margins and returns of the three groups. However, growth and further efficiency gains from this are expected to be lower. Netcare has faced several challenges with its UK operations, he says, citing the fact that BMI under industry veteran Jill Watts since 2014 is a laggard in Britain where its rivals include Spire and Ramsay.For Abraham, the question is what Watts, renowned for doubling activity and profit during her four-year shift at Ramsay, has up her sleeve. Will she be the light bulb that BMI needs? Can she force a turnaround and make it profitable? 