 SIKI MGABADELI:  In the ongoing saga around the finance minister, the CEO Initiative issued a statement this morning, saying it notes with deep concern the announcement by the NPA that the minister has been summoned to court for what they see as essentially an administrative and human-resource matter. They said they are confident that it would have been dealt with at the South African Revenue Service at the time, according to normal processes. Moneyweb’s Ryk Van Niekerk spoke to joint CEO of Standard Bank and member of the CEO Initiative, Sim Tshabalala, who was also part of the delegation that joined the minister in New York last week. Ryk asked him what he makes of the recent developments. SIM TSHABALALA:  We’ve just returned from a very productive trip to the United States, where we engaged the investment community, who are very supportive of the South African sovereign and South African companies. The issues that concerned them about lending money to South Africa and providing finance to South Africa are on the positive side that we’ve got very deep and liquid financial markets, that we’ve got accountable and independent institutions, particularly the judiciary, the Constitutional Court, the central bank and so forth, that we’ve got very low foreign debt and that we are the gateway to the African continent. And then on the negative side, they said generally that usually they are worried about rising political divisions, they are worried about persistent bottlenecks and structural bottlenecks, and the government’s contingent liabilities that relate to state-owned enterprises. And then of course unemployment. Now the events of the past couple of days would be extremely worrying for both domestic and international investors, because they [are] challenging, and suggest that there may be an issue with respect to the independence of important institutions and their ability to effect policy, and in particular in relation to fiscal rectitude. And so one has seen that response in the pricing of the rand as well as other financial instruments. RYK VAN NIEKERK:  Sim, the CEO Initiative issued a very strongly worded statement this morning, and in many ways it’s more aggressive than any other statement of other industry bodies. In the statement you say: “We believe this announcement is part of a campaign against him and the National Treasury, in an effort make it difficult for them to conduct their core responsibilities of maintaining fiscal discipline, which include tightening up systems to deter fraudulent activities.” Sim, this is a powerful statement. SIM TSHABALALA:  It is indeed. And I suppose that is said in the context of a series of events that happened at a very interesting time relative to the medium-term budget speech, to the conversations with the investment community and so forth. RYK VAN NIEKERK:  Sim, we see a lot of political infighting at the moment. Actually, it seems like there is a full-blown war between the different factions of the ruling party, and this must impact confidence – both in South Africa and abroad. Is there any upside to what is happening currently? SIM TSHABALALA:  Ryk, I think one of the strengths that the rating agencies and the investment community have identified is the strength and the probity of South African institutions. And it is natural for them to be tested. Any modern democracy goes through similar processes to what we are going through. It is an extremely difficult and uncomfortable time but, as long as our institutions abide by the sanctity of the Constitution and the sanctity of the law, the upside is that the truth and the right natural laws will apply, and the right outcomes will result. The upside I guess is the testing of institutions and institutions proving themselves to be of probity. RYK VAN NIEKERK:  The CEO Initiative is a very interesting one and it was in many ways the brainchild of Minister Gordhan earlier this year to try and fight off a ratings downgrade. In your statement you also say that a lot has been done to impress the positive factors of the South African economy on the rating agencies, but that these latest developments have eroded some confidence. From a rating agency’s perspective, how bad is it? SIM TSHABALALA:  Again, I would say to you the best test of how investors view a country is actually through the price they put to its debt and to its currency. So one needs to look at the bond yields and look at the value of the rand over the last few days, and both have weakened in value. So that gives you a view and you can draw inferences about how they think about this in context. I think the real issue, the real, real issue, is that South Africa is going through a slow-growth patch; its growth in the last quarter atwas 3.3% but it’s likely to grow at less than 0.5% this year. The country’s population growth is 2%. For as long as we are growing at below that 2%, there is bound to be social dislocation in the fullness of time because there are not enough resources being spread out; the cake is not big enough in that sense. So what we are South Africans need to do as a matter of urgency is get rid of those structural bottlenecks that are in the way of inclusive growth, which is what the CEO Initiative is about. And I might just add that it’s not just the Treasury, it’s an initiative with government, in fact endorsed by the President as well. And it’s an initiative between government, the labour movement and business, with a view to addressing the structural issues that give rise to poverty, inequality and unemployment in the country. If we are to address them, all of a sudden the country grows at 3% or between 3% and 5%, which is what we need to address the scourges of poverty, inequality and unemployment. RYK VAN NIEKERK:  Sim, there is a lot of debate whether Pravin can continue as the Minister of Finance under the current conditions. He has already said on record that he will not resign. But do you think it will be another hit if he is suspended? SIM TSHABALALA:  My view here is that a formal legal process has been instituted. It is incredibly unfortunate that it has happened, but we as South Africans must now hope that that process takes it full course and we’ll see what outcomes there are. In other words, as I said, we need to respect the Constitution, the sanctity of law and the principles that underpin it, and then do our best within the confines of the laws and regulations. SIKI MGABADELI:  Sim Tshabalala is joint CEO of Standard Bank and a member of the CEO initiative.