The onslaught on Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has finally come to a head after he was served with a summons and will need to be in the dock on November 2 to face what appear to be very spurious fraud charges. We are now on an uncharted path as one of South Africa’s most ethical ministers is charged with fraud by a morally corrupt and captured state institution. One can only hope that South Africa has struck rock bottom and that these developments are the last-gasp effort of a desperate president. But it is not all negative. The market did not react as negatively as I anticipated. While the rand fell by 3.5% to around R14.40 against the dollar, the drop was significantly smaller than the 6% decline in December last year, when the currency fell to R15.40 from around R14.50. On the JSE today, the banks were also under pressure and lost more than R50 billion in market capitalisation, but overall the Alsi closed higher. One could also view these developments as another chapter in the president’s self-destruction. No suspension or resignation It is very surprising that Gordhan is still the minister of finance. He wasn’t suspended, as has been the normal modus operandi in the removal of other honourable individuals from government gate-keeping positions. The president even issued a statement; although it was 12 hours after the event and he was obviously testing the waters. The statement said that Gordhan should be regarded as innocent until proven guilty and that the process must be conducted with the “necessary dignity and respect”. Gordhan earlier said in a statement that he is seeking legal counsel and it was obvious that he was not resigning. Lesser people would have thrown in the towel. Surreal Let’s look at the absurdity of yesterday’s developments. It was almost surreal. The day kicked off with the Hawks trying to serve the summons at Gordhan’s home. Unfortunately, he wasn’t there. He was at a conference hosted by the Gauteng provincial government and was about to take the podium when he received the news. (Some great investigative skills from SA’s leading corruption fighting unit…) Gordhan then took to the stage and seemed very relaxed. He cracked a few jokes regarding the requirement that he must “update” his fingerprints, but he also came out swinging when he said: “This is a moment when South Africans should really ask themselves who are these few people in the Hawks really serving? Where do they get their political instructions from…and for what purpose?” But the highlight of the day must be the performance of Shaun Abrahams, the head of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), when he addressed a hastily convened media conference. A new, morally-astute era for the NPA Abrahams read a lengthy statement, which obviously wasn’t drafted earlier that morning. The thorough statement referred to virtually every act in the country in an effort to justify the NPA’s decision. Abrahams also spent an awful amount of time justifying the apparent illegal nature of the so-called rogue unit that operated within the South African Revenue Services, although it did not form part of the charges. He was reluctant to answer any questions on this subject as the “investigation was ongoing”. It is easy to understand why. Abrahams then proceeded to discuss the actual charges laid against Gordhan, Oupa Magashula and Ivan Pillay. The charges relate to alleged administrative irregularities in the handling of Pillay’s early retirement application and his re-appointment on a contractual basis. The pertinent amount involved is a mere R1.1 million. The Q&A –  during which the integrity of the NPA was repeatedly questioned – was as revealing as it was terrifying. A bold Abrahams suddenly proclaimed that the Hawks have entered a new, morally-astute era: “The days of disrespecting the decisions of the NPA are over. The days of looking at the NPA in such a light (where all actions are judged to have been politically influenced), are over. The days of non-accountability and not holding senior government officials accountable, are over.” More pathetic than the Springboks Big words for someone who, minutes before, strongly denied that there was any political interference in the decision to prosecute Gordhan. (Perhaps he does not consider the taking of orders as interference, but that is a subject for another day). These are also big words for the head of the institution which has done everything in its power to avoid prosecuting the president on 783 far more serious charges of corruption. These are bold words for an official who was recently lambasted in parliament as part of a NPA and Hawks delegation for its dismal operational performance. MPs tore into the unit as it acknowledged that, since 2010, it was only investigating corruption cases amounting to R10 billion. This is only a fraction of the R150 billion worth of irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure the Auditor General identified over the same period. Ironically, Gordhan, Magashula and Pillay’s alleged transgression was also committed in 2010 and amounts to R1.1 million. It is also extremely ironic that it took the NPA six years to bring criminal charges related to a R1.1 million early retirement case. Abraham’s performance was pathetic, even more so than the Springboks’ recent showing against the All Blacks. MTBPS Despite the crazy circumstances surrounding the issuance and serving of the summons, it will harm South Africa. The possibility of a ratings downgrade spiked in a similar vein to the rand today, and the already record-low business and investor confidence will be beaten down further. Although anything may happen during the next few weeks, all eyes will be on the Medium Term Budget Policy Statement (MTBPS) which the minister of finance will present on October 26. There are two main questions. The first is who will present it? Mcebisi Jonas? Brian Molefe? Des van Rooyen? Athul Gupta? Or Gordhan? The second question is how the MTBPS will differ from the draft version that is currently laying on Gordhan’s desk. Surely, fifteen days prior to one of the most important government communications, the draft is virtually final. The content will, most probably, depend on who delivers it.