A report in the Financial Times on Monday (paywall) estimates that Barclays divorce from its African arm could cost up to 1 billion . This as the UK bank and its African (sort-of and soon-to-be not) subsidiary are in negotiations about the details of what was always going to be a complicated split.In a circular to shareholders in April, Barclays Plc has admitted frankly that the process of separating the Barclays Africa Group from the Continuing Group is likely to be complex and time-consuming as well as administratively burdensome and costly .Remember that the African unit and Plc have been hard at work to integrate operations for the last decade, a process that gained additional complexity in 2013 following the purchase by Barclays Africa (Absa) of Barclays African operations.Separation means that the orphaned African operations would likely still be leaning on Barclays Plc functions to varying extents. As part of the selling down of a controlling stake, Plc would need to pay a fee to its subsidiary, effectively fronting the cash for Barclays Africa s use of these group services (or an external service provider) for a to-be-determined period of time. Legally, under the master services agreement, Barclays has to provide a six month written notice period (or in the case of technology services, a 12 month one) for voluntary termination.Under the agreement, Barclays Africa Group relies on its parent for certain services, including, among others, credit risk management services, strategic development services, operational management support services, HR advisory services and technology services .These are not inconsequential functions!It has spent literally billions over recent years on the deployment of core Barclays platforms, such as Front Arena, BARX and Barclays.net (as well as much of the consumer-facing front ends on the web and mobile app). Barclays noted in that circular that Termination would not affect Barclays existing annual funding obligation in relation to the maintenance of information technology infrastructure used in the business of certain Barclays Africa Group entities for the period through to 31 July 2018 .Barclays Africa Group chair Wendy Lucas-Bull, writing in the 2014 integrated report, noted that: The business has actively driven significant synergy benefits, taking advantage of IT platforms and products (both wholesale and retail). We have mobilised talent across the Group, creating opportunities for secondments from subsidiary banks and deployment of talent from Barclays Plc to Barclays Africa. This deployment of talent is operating seamlessly with a round-robin of consultants and skills arriving and departing almost constantly. Beyond this help , entire functions have been outsourced to London (and India). Barclays Africa Group s entire recruitment process sits on top of its parent s global platform.And this is how things ought to be when a global parent acquires an operating subsidiary with a regional footprint. The group formerly known as Absa doesn t need to maintain and invest in costly processes and systems (like an enterprise recruitment one) when there are perfectly good global platforms and functions to leverage instead.Except it s going to have to at some point.In March, I argued that the execution paralysis is only just beginning (see: Barclays decision on Africa the worst of both worlds). Untangling something as complicated as a bank is not simple. Some of these integration projects took years for very good reason.At some yet-to-be-determined date in the future, the group formerly known as Absa is going to have to (re)implement its own IT systems (particularly complex and costly in the investment bank), its own recruitment platform and rebuild/establish a brand that doesn t rely on the Barclays name.The trigger for the trademark licence is the shareholding falling below 35%. At that point, the agreement shall remain valid for such period as the parties may agree to be reasonably necessary to enable the relevant Barclays Africa Group company and any of its authorised sub-licensees to rebrand subject to such period being no longer than 18 months . That s not an awful lot of time And, not only does Barclays Plc have to figure out how it s going to untangle this spaghetti, it also has to negotiate terms of a new services agreement for the functions it will still provide to the African operations.The FT cites banks analyst Manus Costello at Autonomous who, in a note to clients, wrote that breaking up is hard to do . The newspaper says Costello extrapolated from the upfront costs for Lloyds Banking Group to spin-off its TSB unit in 2014 which totalled 210 million. Using this as the baseline, he estimated Barclays could face separation costs of between 500 million and 1 billion .None of this is inconsequential to Barclays Africa either. Minor details like the fact that some operating expenses of the African entities acquired during 2013 are still being funded by Barclays Bank Plc (as per the terms of the purchase agreement) need to be taken care of. Sure, the separation agreement and fee paid by Barclays Plc will go some way to smoothing out the impact, but some costs are going to slowly (and potentially not-so-slowly) reappear. A source familiar with the integration and now separation processes has described just how many costs are not being recovered (nor being tracked accurately) by the parent.So, while the break fee will cover the costs Barclays Plc and Barclays Africa know about (and are tracking) in the near-term, the African unit will have to confront these at some point probably sooner than anyone thinks. In other words, the flow-through will mean much of this will be neutral at first, but expect more than a few exceptional items to crop up in the income statement not too far from the moment of separation. &nbsp;* Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at [email&#160;protected]