&nbsp;&nbsp;RYK VAN NIEKERK: Good morning, welcome to this special webinar brought to you by Moneyweb and 10X Investments and our topic today is a critical one for all investors, especially those who save for their retirement and how the fees that are charged on retirement products are eating into return values. I have two guests in studio, Steven Nathan and Tracy Jensen from 10X. Steven and Tracy welcome to the studio. Participants are welcome to ask Steven and Tracy questions, on the webinar interface there is a special box and you can type your questions, send it to me and I will then act smart and ask the panel. There are also a few slides that will highlight the main discussion points we have today. Steven, let s start with a very bold claim you make in the marketing material and that is if you pay a 3% annual fee on your retirement savings you could reduce your total return over a 40-year period by up to 40% and that is compared to a plan where you only pay a 1% fee. These numbers are scary, how did you calculate those?STEVEN NATHAN: Thanks, Ryk. They do sound scary and it s not a claim, it s just a mathematical certainty and it s also the power of compounding. Often we are told that compounding is great because if you save for a long period of time you re going to benefit from the compounded impact and really compounding means that the growth becomes disproportional, so it s not really a linear growth, it s not a straight line, it actually grows and it grows. What people don t realise is that investment fees also suffer from compounding because if you can get an extra 1% on your investment over 40 years that s going to have a dramatic impact. I guess a simple way to think about it is if you ve got R100 saved and you can earn an extra 1% on that, you re going to have R101 at the end of the first year, being 1% on R100, and you re going to get one a bit in the second year, so you re going to get more than 40% on a 1% saving. So it actually works out to be about R150, versus R100 if you paid that extra 1% in fees. So what we re saying is that you re making regular contributions, it s not a once-off, you re making a contribution every month and the numbers will show you in this presentation, so you can go and double check that. But effectively an example that we give there is someone is saving R3000 per month for 40 years, after inflation they d get about R5 million in today s money if they paid a 1% fee but if they paid a 2% fee they would only have R3 million. So it s R3 million versus R5 million.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Let me get that right, so you pay R3000 a month for a period of 40 years, if you pay 1% fees per annum on your investment you will have R5 million at the end of the period but if you pay 3% you will only have R3 million.STEVEN NATHAN: That s correct. So that s just the maths, so it s that 2% difference and what we re saying is that R3 million you should have had R5 million, so you re losing R2 million and R2 million over R5 million is 40% less. Another way of putting it is that R2 million over R3 million you could actually have 67% more. So it s either 67% more or 40% less but either way it s an astounding amount of money that investors don t have to pay because you re not getting better returns by paying more money for investments.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Tracy, is this an actuarial calculation, what happens if there is a lot of volatility in the market?TRACY JENSEN: It has very little impact because you are dealing with a 40-year period, so it s quite a long period. Over a short time, say one or two years, then obviously you are going to have quite dramatically different results. But over 40 years, even when accounting for volatility, you get very, very similar outcomes.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Steven, let s talk about the 3%, why do you use 3%, I assume you refer to actively-managed portfolios, where the typical person would invest via a financial advisor. Can you take us through why the 3% is such a relevant number and is actually ubiquitous in the industry?STEVEN NATHAN: So it starts with someone who is saving for retirement what do they do, they tend to need advice because it s a complex area and there s stuff about what s an RA and what exactly are the tax advantages. So people need advice and they also need an investment plan. RYK VAN NIEKERK: What is a typical advice fee? STEVEN NATHAN: In South Africa you can pay anything up to 1% plus VAT on your investment balance, so if you are investing with a unit trust company it can be up to 1.14% of your investment balance and that s taken off every year. STEVEN NATHAN: Some advisors also charge an initial fee, so every time you make a contribution they also take 1% or 2% off that. If you are investing in a life insurance product then the advice fee could be even higher than that. So we estimate that the average investor in South Africa is probably paying about 0.75% plus VAT for advice. So it also begs the question why do you need advice and why do you need ongoing advice, and the reason is that it s a very complex environment, the investment companies have made investing unnecessarily complex. There are 1400 different unit trusts and even if someone says that XYZ is a great company, you go to their website or you try and enquire what to do and you are faced with so many different products, you don t know what they mean and if you ask the company which one should I invest in they say, we can t give you advice, go and speak to your advisor. So it s almost as if the industry is forcing you to use advisors because they are not giving you solutions that you can trust or that you can work out yourself are actually in your best interest.RYK VAN NIEKERK: But not everybody is a financial expert, you have a lot of professionals who earn good money, is it not dangerous to tell that person, listen, take responsibility for your retirement, go directly and invest in an ETF, exchange traded funds, because you will earn a lot more due to the lower fees you pay? STEVEN NATHAN: Well, as I said,I think that the industry has made it deliberately complex. So rather than give you a solution that you know you are always going to be invested appropriately, so you don t need to be an investment expert or a financial expert to work out or to monitor it all the time.&nbsp;What we ve done at 10X is exactly that, we give you an investment solution where you don t have to be an expert to understand it and we only give you one solution because you can only really invest your money ultimately in one place. So rather than give you complex choices we say we know what is best for you and we are going to invest you on that basis, according to your time horizon and we re going to adjust that portfolio so you don t have to worry about market volatility or a weak rand, and you certainly don t need to listen to market commentators because the alternative of trusting this industry, research and the empirical data is showing you that investment advisors are no better at picking funds than anyone else and most active managers don t outperform. So the alternative of saying I don t really know what s going on, I m going to trust my financial advisor and the fund manager, that in the vast majority of cases leads to dramatically worse outcomes. So what we are trying to do at 10X is give people simple solutions that they can trust and because it s a simple investment strategy you can go online and you can test it. What 10X is saying, as I just said, most investment advisors can t beat the market and in a couple of slides time, we ll show you, if you just ask that question on Google in less than a second you ll have about 500 000 answers.RYK VAN NIEKERK: We ll talk about performance just now. I have a question from Herman Warren and he asks, I have an old style RA and the fee is greater than 3% per annum, I made it paid up a few years ago. Is there a way I can transfer the money or the value that is sitting in the RA to a provident fund or another RA with a lower management fee?STEVEN NATHAN: Yes, so what you need to do is to find out the specific facts because the life companies have got a lot of discretion in terms of how much they can take away in what they call termination penalties. So it s anywhere between 15% they can take away, I think that s from about 2006, but if it s a policy you took out before 2006 they can take up to 30%. So what you need to do is get somebody, you can do it yourself but it s really a simple calculation because a lot of people are sacred to transfer because they are going to get this termination penalty. But let me give you a simple example, let s say that you ve got R100 000 in your retirement annuity and if you transfer it the life company will say we re going to charge you a R20 000 termination penalty. So your R100 000 would actually go to R80 000. But let s say you ve got ten years or 20 years left to run, what s going to happen is that with a life company you are paying 3% or more. With a provider like 10X you are paying 1% or less, so every year you get a 2% benefit and you ll make up that 10% or 20% termination penalty over a period of time. So you actually need to do the numbers.RYK VAN NIEKERK: But that s different to a pension fund, where you can transfer it into a preservation fund or a provident fund, why is that the case?STEVEN NATHAN: I think Herman said that he s got an old style life company retirement annuity and unfortunately these retirement annuities from life companies that were sold, and still are sold actually, allow the life company to charge you these termination penalties. Whereas, you are exactly right, if you have a company pension or provident fund and you withdraw from that fund you don t incur any penalties whatsoever. So it s just a regulation that allows the life companies to do that.TRACY JENSEN: The reasoning for it is they used to pay their advisor all the commission upfront in one lump sum and now they ve got to recoup that commission that they ve already paid the whole lifetime of the product.RYK VAN NIEKERK: I missed the old style [in the question], they were definitely not to the benefit or the interest of the investor. Gerhard van Niekerk, you asked the a question, is it better to pay a contribution-based fee or an asset-based fee, will there be a difference at retirement?STEVEN NATHAN: Yes, I ll let Tracy answer that. At the end of the day what matters is the sheer amount of fees you are paying and you can divide that by your average investment balance. Tracy can give you the specific mathematics and National Treasury actually also did some work on this in their paper on charges because National Treasury is very unhappy with the high fees that retirement savers are charged in South Africa. Basically they said their research concluded that it s better to have a fee based on the contribution but it seems worse because it s an upfront fee, rather than an asset fee but I think Tracy can probably rather answer the matter a bit better.TRACY JENSEN: I agree with Steven, you ve got to convert the fees to a rand amount, so if the rand amount on the contribution fee is less then that is more beneficial but it is very much a psychological thing because you see a smaller amount being invested but often because the asset fee is charged not only on the contribution you are making but all the money you ve accumulated thus far, it s typically much higher than if you pay just on the contribution for that month.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Let s talk about passive versus active, as you said earlier, you believe that active managers cannot outperform the index, can you just talk around that, is that the case long-term, what is the case in South Africa versus the international trend?STEVEN NATHAN: So, once again, the view that active managers on average can t beat the market is not a 10X view, it s a mathematical fact and I think people need to understand that, that investing is a zero sum game. For example, if the index returns 10% in a year, the overall market, some shares did better than 10% and some shares did worse than 10%. So let s say you owned the one share, let s call it Naspers, that earned 40%, so you would have beaten the market if you only held Naspers. Active managers call that alpha, the excess return above the market. But if your fund manager bought Naspers, someone sold it, so someone would not have Naspers in their portfolio and they would have underperformed by that amount. So the key point about active management is that it s a zero-sum game before fees, for every winner there is a loser but you pay fees and quite high fees to fund managers, you pay performance fees because those managers who outperform a benchmark what even more, you pay transaction costs. So it s impossible after fees for the average manager to beat the market and that s in any market, it s in South Africa, it s in the US. Standard &amp; Poor s has done a lot of research on this and they showed that over ten years in South Africa and in the US 80% of fund managers have underperformed the markets. So it s not a 10X view, it s a mathematical certainty and I think the key point here is about probability, is what is the likelihood or the probability that you pick the winning fund manager over ten or 20 years. It s probable, there might be a 10% or 20% probability but that s quite low. It s also possible that you win the lottery or you win at gambling but you ve got to decide whether you want to invest on probability or possibility.RYK VAN NIEKERK: That is the case if your metric is return, many of the fund managers offer lower risk multi-asset products to reduce risk, especially if you approach retirement. Is it not more risky from that perspective to invest only in ETFs?STEVEN NATHAN: The active-passive debate is not about asset allocation. So the question you are asking is an asset allocation question, so the first question that any investor must ask is what is the right mix of assets in my portfolio, how much should I have in the South African stock market, how much should I have in international stock markets and then how much should I have for diversification, so assets that are going to smooth out the ups and the downs, and they are going to protect me in different market conditions. So we add assets like property, cash and bonds. So that gives you a diversified portfolio and in investing we say the only free lunch, so the only reliable way to improve risk-adjusted returns is to diversify your portfolio. That s an asset allocation decision and at 10X we run very well diversified portfolios with all those asset classes, both in South Africa and internationally. Once you ve done that, which as I said is the most important decision, then you ve got to say now I ve got to implement this. Should I track the market, own index funds or ETFs, unit trusts, any type of index funds or should I try and pay someone a high fee to do better. So it s almost a second order decision but because of the emotion and also I think all the vested interest involved, and maybe because we all like to speculate and gamble and want to own the best performing fund, we tend to focus far too much on active versus passive, than do I have the right long-term asset allocation. As you say, the asset allocation must be adjusted because if you need the money in a short time or you re approaching retirement and you re going to be cashing that in or you re going to be buying an annuity, it may not be a good idea to be overly exposed to the stock market.RYK VAN NIEKERK: I ve got a question from Fred Ludick, he asks I have a unit trust-based investment at Coronation and Allan Gray, is there a way to reduce the fees by moving these unit trust investments to a share trading account or must the unit trust be managed by Coronation and Allan Gray?STEVEN NATHAN: There are typically three kinds of fees that one can pay, the first is an advisor fee, do you have an advisor and do you need an advisor. So I m not sure if Fred has an advisor and if he needs an advisor but potentially you could save on that fee, you could negotiate possibly a lower fee. If you invest with more than one fund, so with Allan Gray, Coronation, whoever you are investing with, then you need some kind of administration platform to manage that. Typically you are sitting on what s called a LISP platform, it s an administration platform that allows you to invest in more than one fund and that administration platform does the recordkeeping for you, so that you get one investment statement for all your underlying portfolios. There s a fee for that, those fees typically average about 0.5%, so if you are going to be investing in more than one company through a LISP platform you are going to pay an administration fee but you don t have to pay that fee, you could go directly yourself to both companies and you d have to hold the investments in your own name and wouldn t have to pay that administration fee, and then you d pay whatever the fee is for the Coronation or the Allan Gray fund. So you can reduce it. If you had your own share portfolio, once again, you ve got to see what are they going to charge me for administration and what are they going to charge me for trading my portfolio. It may be lower or higher, depending on how much you negotiate and your various fee structures.RYK VAN NIEKERK: What is 10X s fee structure?STEVEN NATHAN: Our fees at 10X range from 0.3% to 0.9% plus VAT. We have a sliding scale based upon the amount of money you have invested with us, so it s between 0.3% and 0.9% and that s the total cost of investing, there s no other fees added to that.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Is that per month or is it lump sum investments?STEVEN NATHAN: That s per annum, so it will be one-twelfth taken off per annum.RYK VAN NIEKERK: For me to qualify for the 0.3% fee what do I need to put in?STEVEN NATHAN: For example, on our unit trust it s a 0.5% fee plus VAT but if you have over R10 million then you would pay 0.3%, so it s at the higher end.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Steven, many people s financial affairs are quite complicated and a financial advisor plays an important role to try and manage more than just the retirement of that individual. Is it possible to invest in the 10X product through a financial advisor?STEVEN NATHAN: Yes it is, you can invest through financial advisors and we do have a few advisors who support us but I must say it s in the minority, most of the advisors don t support us. But I think your point is well made and it really boils down to, as the investor or the consumer what services do you need and what advice do you need. So if it s things like you are worried about tax, you might be worried about your will, are you structured correctly if something unforeseen happens to you, are you budgeting correctly, then go and get advice on those specifics. But don t pay a financial advisor a lot of money to try and pick winning funds for you and I think that s the difference, advisors can give you financial advice but they are not good at picking investment managers. Typically what we see in South Africa is that the investment industry, together with advisors, in the main they overcomplicate things. So as Fred said to us, he s got two investment products, most people have about four investment products. So they ve got a little bit with and we show it on the slide the most popular fund managers in South Africa are Allan Gray, Coronation, Foord, Investec and Prudential, so they put 20% with each of those five top fund managers and they charge you a lot of money for that. Now if you just want to invest in the five top fund managers you can work that out yourself, you don t need to pay someone for that. Also research shows that when you have so many fund managers like that you re actually getting an index-like return and you are paying very high fees.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Kgaugelo Morake, he asks, it s the same point I made earlier, it seems to me that your guests are completely discounting the value-add of advisors, simply making it about fees is dangerous and it misses the point, advice is complex and multi-layered and you can t really discuss it only in terms of fees.STEVEN NATHAN: Without a doubt, so it s no use having a bad product but not charge much. So these are ands, they are not ors, so it s not do I pay high or low fees or do I get a good product. You need to get a good product and pay low fees. So what advice do you need, if you are saving for retirement you might need two different kinds of advice, the one might be that I want someone to draw up a financial plan for me and that s going to be how much money do I need, how much should I save, where should I invest my money. So you can pay someone to draw up a financial plan, 10X has a financial plan online that you can access for free but you might want to pay someone to do that. That s the first thing and then you need to implement that plan, which is how should I be investing my money and there you need to understand investment principles. If there are three investment principles that you need to know they are firstly, as I mentioned earlier, is it is about asset allocation and there it s time drives risk, so depending on your time horizon you can link an appropriate investment portfolio to your time horizon. That s a tried and tested investment principle. Now, you can pay someone to give you that advice or you can look at it yourself, you can do some research on the internet and work it out yourself.The second is that on average an index fund is going to outperform an active fund, so you can, once again, implement that. The third is that fees are really important but don t overpay for your investments. So, as I say, there are many ways to get that advice but that is very good advice, it s not going to give you the best portfolio because I don t which the best portfolio of the 1400 is going to be. But what we do at 10X is we invest you on that basis, using those principles, so you know that you are always going to be sensibly invested. I think what s quite interesting for people to know is that at 10X our clients include lots of the leading investment banks. So although it s a simple product, there is advice but it s embedded in the way we manage money on a time horizon basis, a lot of our clients are working in investment banks and are very sophisticated investors. So it doesn t mean that just because you are paying low fees you re getting a bad product.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Mervyn asks does 10X operate as a LISP?STEVEN NATHAN: No, we don t, our products aren t available on a LISP.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Why not?STEVEN NATHAN: Well, it would increase the cost to the investor and we are all about getting our product to the investor at the lowest cost. I think these LISPs are very interesting because, as I said, a LISP is great for an advisor because if you are an advisor and you give people three different portfolios, what systems do you have to manage those portfolios, to aggregate the performance, to manage investor records. Well, the answer is no systems. So outsource to Allan Gray or Investec or Glacier or whoever and they do all the work for you. Your client pays a fee, most people don t know they are paying this fee, and it s much better to get a statement from Allan Gray rather than Joe Bloggs broker. So people are paying a lot of money for services they don t necessarily need.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Mervyn asks another question, if I have an RA where I have 25% in cash property for Regulation 28 purposes and 75% in equities, and I control my own stocks, how can I do this at 10X, for example, where you control your equity investments and you take care of Regulation 28.STEVEN NATHAN: Okay, so you can t do that at 10X because we are all about providing solutions to people. So that s quite interesting because that is saying I know what I should be doing, so that s kind of at the other end where I m taking my own advice completely and I m executing that advice. Then you ve just got to find a stockbroking platform that allows you to choose the shares in your own name and provides you with that RA licence, so you get the tax benefits. But that s more likely to be a stockbroker and 10X does not offer that.RYK VAN NIEKERK: So the person you appeal to would be somebody who wants to save for retirement and come directly to you. How many people come to you and are very uncertain whether they should take the risk of doing it themselves and not going through the peace of mind route, which could be through an advisor?STEVEN NATHAN: Well, as I said earlier, about 98% of our clients come directly to us and most of them have done their homework. So most of them have done a bit of research on the internet or they ve spoken to friends or they might be in the investment industry and they understand these issues. If you speak to anyone in the investment industry you ll see they are the most sceptical of the investment industry because we ve been inside the machine and we know what happens. So we don t find that people who come to us are worried about going directly, they know that most active managers underperform, they know that advisors can t reliably pick active managers and they know that fees hurt their long-term return. So they have the knowledge and they are empowered and I guess they have a bit of courage to do it themselves. But clearly we are a relatively small player in the market and the vast majority of South Africans are investing through advisors, so for whatever reason, if they are not confident or they don t know enough about the alternatives, obviously one can guess what the answer is but a relatively small amount of people are becoming self-directed.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Tracy, one of your slides mentions that South Africa has a poor disclosure when it comes to fees. If you do contribute to an RA how can you calculate what the actual impact is on the returns?TRACY JENSEN: The old style RAs will have something published, which is called the reduction in yield, which basically assumes that you hold the product for the whole period, which is obviously problematic if you exit early, as we were talking about earlier with penalties. But ASISA is bringing in a new measure called effective actual cost and that is supposed to account for everything, your admin fees, your platform fees, your performance fees and your investment fees, so that is supposed to encompass everything. That s due to be implemented this month, so hopefully that will help investors have a better measure. But that s only the first step, even if I know I m paying 3%, do I understand what that 3% means, as we discussed at the beginning, do I know that that actually means 40% less because a lot of people think it s just a few percent, what does that really matter.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Bruce asks, my financial advisor seems to have taken offence to me requesting 10X as a vehicle for my living annuity, can I manage the living annuity with 10X myself in my retirement until I can t any longer and then hand the management of that living annuity to my advisor?STEVEN NATHAN: Yes, you can definitely transfer a living annuity to 10X. As I said, you can do it with an advisor or without an advisor. Bruce s experience is quite common to what we see, is that there are some advisors who support 10X s product and the lower fees but a lot of them don t and when we ve spoken to advisors often the reaction is it sounds great but how do I justify my fee if I m just going to put it with you and then track the market. Our response is as a financial advisor you are there to give financial advice, there are a lot of emotions and coaching and other issues to worry about but you are not there to pick the winning fund managers. For some reason in South Africa fund advisors are focused on being pickers of fund managers. But if you look at the US, as an example, fund managers aren t glorified in the US, it s very hard to go to Wall Street Journal or Financial Times or any publication of substance over there and see the top performing fund of the week, the month, the year, whatever. So I think it s just a matter that South African investors need to catch up to that trend.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Can I move my retirement annuity to 10X?STEVEN NATHAN: You certainly can and what we would advise you do is that if it s an old style RA, as was mentioned earlier, we ll do a free benchmark and exercise for you. So we ll find out the penalties, if any, that you would pay, the fee difference and we ll do a projection and show you the impact of fees and whether it is in your best interest to transfer that or not. So a lot of people don t know they can do it or they are worried about all the hassle work because life companies don t make it very easy, they have a termination department and you may not hear from your life company for many years but if you surrender your policy you ll hear from the termination department. So we take away that hassle for people.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Unfortunately we have run out of time. Thank you, Steven Nathan and Tracy Jensen from 10X.