RYK VAN NIEKERK: A very high-level South African delegation attended the SA Tomorrow Investor Conference in New York this week. This is one of the premier events where South Africa markets itself to international investors. The delegation included Pravin Gordhan, the Minister of the Treasury, as well as about 28 very high-level South African CEOs. One of these CEOs is Ralph Mupita, the CEO of Old Mutual Emerging Markets and he speaks to us from New York. Ralph, welcome to the show. What was your mood when you walked into the conference, and what is your mood now? RALPH MUPITA:  Thanks very much and good evening to your listeners. I think from a perspective of South Africa there are quite a lot of positives. If you look at the US, there is a substantial amount of global emerging market money that is in the US. And us being part of global emerging markets quite a lot of investors are very interested in the South African story. I think the mood from the US side is a lot more positive than we are in South Africa, certainly a sense that South Africa relative to other emerging markets like Turkey and Brazil is definitely a great investment destination. So a lot of positives and interest in South Africa, and also a very clear sense that with South Africa’s deep capital markets, well-functioning capital markets, that from a US investor point of view interest is still here. And also importantly, Ryk, in this ultra-low-yield interest-rate environment, yields in South Africa are pretty attractive compared to US bonds and US equities RYK VAN NIEKERK:  Who are these international investors? Obviously they are looking for yield, but why would they choose South Africa above some of the other markets you have mentioned? RALPH MUPITA:  Look, I think the two groups of investors we saw over the last two days are obviously the financial investors who are looking to be in our bond and equity markets. But there are some real economies that were part of the group that met up with the South African delegation, and it’s mostly global emerging markets’ money that are in attendance. But if you look at the South African economy, there are areas that are certainly of interest to many investors in the real economies, and so we had both financial investors and the real economy investors. As I said earlier, Ryk, the point is we have our challenges in South Africa, certainly. But everywhere else you look across the globe, even here in the US, there are challenges and questions around what happens if Trump becomes the President of the US, issues that are in investors’ minds here – what can happen. It is politics in the US as we have seen dominating the economy, politics is dominating the economy in Britain with Brexit. And so they understand that even from a South African perspective we have our own political economy issues. And South Africa looks quite an attractive destination if your other options are, as I said, Brazil and Turkey and Malaysia and others. So it’s a relative game. It’s a relative point of view. RYK VAN NIEKERK:  There is a lot of political noise at the moment, and a lot of political tension. What was the key message from the South African delegation to these international investors? RALPH MUPITA:  The message which was very well received by the Americans was the frankness about what our challenges are, the challenges we have around growth and then the challenges we have around our democracy which is in a pretty challenging time. So I think the point that we were being open about the issues around institutions – that the institutions like National Treasury and the South African Reserve Bank have to be guarded by all South Africans. That was the message that was conveyed and has been accepted. And there is a very clear sense that we would want to have structural reforms in South Africa [that] haven’t progressed a lot more than where we are right now, and that is frustrating. But an understanding that there is a momentum building up, and hopefully that momentum does lead to the full structural changes we need whether they be about state enterprises, they are about labour market reforms, etc. So these were the conversations that we were having … being blunt and direct about these issues. RYK VAN NIEKERK:   There were around 30 very high-profile CEOs at the conference from South Africa, and it’s the best attended conference from that perspective. Why do you think so many high-profile people actually bought a ticket, went to New York to try and woo the international investors? RALPH MUPITA:  Well, as I said, there is certainly still a very keen interest from investors. So you are talking about the CEOs who came here. We also had labour…who were here. So it wasn’t just business. We had labour here and some of the state-owned enterprises were also here. So it was a large South African delegation. But as Old Mutual we’ve been involved in this conference for the last three years. This was the biggest interest we’ve seen from the private sector and ….from South Africans willing to talk to investors, who were interested in the South African story and the opportunities there. But I think more enlightening was the fact that there was a significant amount of interest – the largest I’ve seen in the past three years of US investors wanting to engage and talk to the South African delegation. RYK VAN NIEKERK:   Thanks you Ralph. That’s was Ralph Mupita, the CEO of Old Mutual emerging markets. Maudi, a pretty positive reception of the South African delegation there. MAUDI LENTSOANE:  Most certainly. I strongly agree and I concur with everything that he said. And I think the work of the Treasury and business has to be commended for going out there and communicating what everybody seems to be ignoring – the fact that we remain a very powerful, very strong destination for investors to come in and look for strong investment opportunities. Despite everything that is happening – there’s political instability, there is the #FeesMustFall. But when you look beyond that, there are some positives to be really unlocked. RYK VAN NIEKERK:   Maudi Lentsoane is from Lehumo Capital.