Support for Pravin Gordhan continues to pour in from all sectors, with the CEO Initiative also adding its voice, stating that it believes that the action taken against the finance minister forms part of a campaign against the National Treasury. In a strongly-worded statement, the CEO Initiative says: “We remain convinced the Minister has not acted incorrectly. We believe this announcement is part of a campaign against him and the National Treasury, in an effort to make it difficult for them to conduct their core responsibilities of maintaining fiscal discipline, which includes tightening up systems to deter fraudulent activities and creating a conducive environment for sustainably growing our economy for the benefit of all who live in it.” This follows a very strong reaction from Gordhan himself, in which he accused National Director of Public Prosecutions, Shaun Abrahams, of being disingenuous. A defiant Gordhan on Tuesday accused Abrahams of being dishonest in communication with him, and said the charges were politically motivated. The CEO Initiative’s statement further says that the close working relationship between the members of the initiative and Treasury averted a ratings downgrade earlier this year. “The announcement from the NPA – and its timing – has resulted in a significantly-negative impact on the performance of the currency, the stock exchange and the positive sentiment built during the most recent international investor roadshow showcasing South Africa in New York. “This development will undoubtedly make all engagements with ratings agencies in the foreseeable future extremely difficult and erodes the positive progress we have made to date. We appeal to the authorities to put the national interest at the top of the agenda and enable those making a sterling contribution to the nation to continue doing so – for the good of all who live in South Africa. The CEO Initiative also says that the charges brought against Gordhan are essentially related to an “administrative and human resource” matter. “We are confident it would have been dealt with at the South African Revenue Services at the time, according to normal processes.” The CEO Initiative is a relatively informal body representing the largest companies in South Africa and has been working closely with Gordhan and Treasury since the beginning of the year to avoid, or at least delay, a ratings downgrade. The steering committee includes very high-profile leaders such as Jabulane Mabuza (Telkom), Sim Tshabalala (Standard Bank), Ralph Mupita (Old Mutual Emerging Markets), Nicky Newton-King (JSE), Mike Brown (Nedbank), Adrian Gore (Discovery), Brian Joffe, (Bidvest) Dr Dan Matjila (PIC) Colin Coleman (Goldman Sachs SA) and Stephen Koseff (Investec).