NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Throughout this series Moneyweb will be interviewing various CEOs and entrepreneurs, who have taken their businesses into Africa, they ll share some of the actual learnings on the ground. Gerhard Visagie is investment director at Acorn Private Equity that s based in Cape Town. He returned last week from a three-month motorcycle trip throughout Southern and Eastern Africa to scout the African countries from a business and investment perspective, as well as ticking a few things off his bucket list. He joins us on the line now, Gerhard, thank you so much for your time.GERHARD VISAGIE: Thank you very much, Nastassia, and thank you for the opportunity.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So take us through the rationale of hopping onto a motorcycle and deciding that I m going to ride from Cape Town and see the continent.GERHARD VISAGIE: It s definitely a very unconventional thing to do but for ten years I ve dreamt of doing it. I have a very deep passion for Africa and also the upliftment of Africa, and to see Africa at the head of nations and not the tail, where it is at the moment. So I ve dreamt about it for many years and I planned for many months. There were two sides to it, one from a business and investment perspective, as you mentioned, I am director of investment at Acorn Private Equity, and we have two funds, one is Acorn Agri, which is focused on the agricultural and food sectors in Southern Africa, and then we are also in the process of launching Acorn Africa Fund, which invests in Southern and Eastern Africa. Then I also invest quite vigorously in listed equities on the African continent, so we have numerous listed equity investments throughout various countries that I visited. So the rationale was to investigate those countries from an investment perspective and to get an on-the-ground perspective of what each country is about and the people and the infrastructure, and to see the opportunities and risks, and get a general feel of what is going on on the ground. Along with that it was also to tick off a lot of bucket list items, as you mentioned, 90% of my bucket list items are in Africa. So it was to visit Victoria Falls and white water raft on the Nile River, and to see the gorillas in Bwindi in Uganda, visit the Serengeti and all that. So it was a mixture of business and pleasure, which is the way I like to do things.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Take us through the journey, which country did you start off with and tell us about the other countries that you went through and visited.GERHARD VISAGIE: I started off in Cape Town and took the train with my motorcycle to Johannesburg, and from there I rode through Botswana and Zambia quite swiftly because I ve been there numerous times and I have a fairly good idea about what s going on in each country. Then I took a ferry that s a ship that s more than 100 years old, a very rich history, I crossed Lake Tanganyika on the ferry with my motorcycle. I must say that my heart skipped a few beats when they lifted my motorcycle into the air with their very old crane onto the ferry. Then I rode north-west through Tanzania, which is quite a rural area, to the border of Rwanda and then through Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya and then north up to Ethiopia. I then spent one month in Ethiopia and came down to Nairobi, unfortunately I had to leave my motorcycle in Nairobi because I ran out of time. Then I visited Tanzania for two weeks and then I had to fly back. I would have loved to ride back but unfortunately time didn t permit that.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In terms of the learnings and your conversations with some of the locals and what you saw on the ground, what did you pick up?GERHARD VISAGIE: What I picked up, firstly, if you look at opportunities and risks in these countries, let s start with the risks, obviously there are infrastructure challenges. A lot things I heard and I read and I knew beforehand, and a lot of it was confirmed for me on the ground and some things were refuted, which changed my mind about Africa and the landscape. So if we look at the challenges, like infrastructure, but there is very clearly a strong move towards infrastructure development and you see a lot of infrastructure in development, as we speak, which is quite positive.When you speak to people on the ground and to ex-pats, ex-pats bring a very interesting viewpoint to the party that s sometimes a bit different from the locals because they might be a bit too close to the fire and not aware of what systems and a country can be like, as opposed to ex-pats who have been to South Africa, have worked in South Africa or the UK or whatever.Ease of doing business, people are definitely talking about it, in some countries you have a lot of opportunities but it s quite difficult to capitalise on those opportunities because it s not so easy to do business. An example of that is Uganda, quite a few people mentioned that in Uganda and also Zambia. Then at the moment we are seeing a disparity in growth between countries that are dependent on commodities and those that are not. So Zambia is in a difficult spot because of their dependence on copper but Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda are doing quite well.Then also political risk is a real risk, I was in a political instability hotspot at the moment, which is Ethiopia, and in the month that I was there, there were big protests, the police and military opened fire and killed a lot of civilians in Ethiopia while I was there and it was literally two weeks before I had to go through a certain city. So you are confronted with the reality of that, which is quite unsettling on the one hand, but also on the other hand you realise that if you look at instability from afar you are very averse to that country but even when you are in the country you realise that it s only pockets and it doesn t necessarily affect the country as a whole, which we tend to think while we are sitting in South Africa.The macro environment is really important, especially from an investment perspective. When I was in Tanzania the people there are extremely positive about their new president, John Magufuli, and they are positive about the growth prospects of that country over the next ten years. But Magufuli has implemented a lot of reforms and the economy, I was quite surprised, I found an economy that s a bit sluggish at the moment because they are still adjusting to the new reforms that have been implemented. But it s the old adage of taking short and paying for long-term gain. But some of their reforms were quite unexpected, so you get that policy instability or unexpected policies from time to time. Another example is just before I went to Kenya the Kenyan government implemented a law that caps the interest rates that banks can charge and also a cap on the minimum interest that they have to pay on deposits. If you speak to ten out of ten of the CEOs of the big banks there, all ten will tell you that they didn t expect that, whereas in a country like South Africa you would get advance notice of something like that, a year or two, for the companies to adjust and prepare for that.In terms of opportunities, infrastructure is definitely [an opportunity], roads being built, ports, airports and so forth but the most exciting for me is undoubtedly agriculture and food, also because we have an agri and food investment holding company. You just see on the ground that agriculture is in the blood of the Africans and oftentimes we look at small-scale farming almost from a negative point of view, but there are a lot of positives that it brings to a country. All the countries put a lot of emphasis on their farming sector and on their small-scale farmers as a catalyst for growth into the future because agriculture is a big proportion of the total GDP basket in every country. So if you can grow your agriculture, you are growing your GDP quite significantly.Then also, there are definitely opportunities in local production and manufacturing with the idea of import substitution and that s a policy and a strategy that somebody like Aliko Dangote, who is the richest man in Africa, has implemented quite successfully, starting in Nigeria and then rolling that out into other African countries as well to look at the basket of imports in the country and see how you can get some form of protection from imports and incentives on exports from those countries and to focus on those sectors.Then lastly, what I was most impressed about was the people and the industriousness and the friendliness, and even the heart of the people. When you are solo travelling on a motorbike through Africa you find yourself many times in some kind of pickle, where you have to cross the river or something and there are just people streaming out of everywhere to come and help you.But not only that, obviously there s a difference between every country, like in Zambia, Uganda and Kenya it is easy to communicate because most of the people speak English and it will be easier to do business there. Then if you go to Ethiopia most people don t speak English, so it will be more of a challenge, to a lesser degree Rwanda as well but they are becoming more English-speaking every day. So that s definitely something to consider from a business perspective.Then also the culture in each country differs, you don t have to spend a lot of time in Kenya to realise that the people there are very industrious and creative and they are go-getters. You just pick it up from small things, the way that you interact with a waitress at a restaurant but then it gets affirmed three or four or five times in different other ways. Then you speak to people in Rwanda and they will tell you that the people in Kenya are go-getters and are very industrious. Sometimes [places] get stigmas, you must be careful of that but countries do differ.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I m sure you ve heard many misconceptions about Africa and doing business in Africa, which ones can we dispel right now in terms of the many rumours and the myths that we hear about the African continent?GERHARD VISAGIE: The first thing that I realised very clearly was that outsiders have a warped view of Africa because I thought I knew a lot about Africa until I got there and I got onto the ground and I realised that it s so different to what you think. Especially South Africans, we are also part of Africa, but oftentimes South Africans seem to think of Africa as Africa ex-South Africa. So my first advice would be for people who are interested to do business in Africa is to get onto the ground because you will learn so many lessons.I think the first misconception is one that was very interesting for me, from Cape Town to northern Ethiopia you can travel on excellent quality roads all the way, if you want to. The arterial routes are really, really good. I think that is oftentimes a misconception.The other one is that, yes, there is poverty in Africa, but the poverty is not what we expect. I expected to see a lot of shanty towns and shacks and people who look poor, but when you are there, when you drive through rural areas you can see the poverty, but it s not what you expect and the people have a lot of pride and self-respect. The way that they interact with you and the way that they handle themselves you realise that even though this person is living on US$1 or $2 a day, he doesn t look poor and he doesn t act poor. They have a lot of self-respect, which is positive.A country that really impressed me was Rwanda, when I got to the border post they confiscated all my plastic bags because it s outlawed there because it creates too much pollution. It s an amazingly clean country, I would highly advise people who would like to do business in Africa to have a look at Rwanda quite seriously because that is a unique country. Rwanda is a bit of an enigma, it s a bit of a paradox, when you are there you know you are in Africa but it doesn t look and feel like Africa. So that s quite positive.Some of the stigmas are true, but there is another side to it that s not always explained and understood well enough. So yes, there are infrastructure deficiencies but it s being developed. Yes, there are a lot of small-scale farmers, but you have initiatives to improve their efficiency and productivity, and also to attract commercial farming. So you have a lot of conversations that have two sides. Yes, you cannot just run into Africa and go and do business because you have to be very careful and very thoughtful about how you approach it. Identify the countries that you feel have a stable macro environment, good political governance and good policies. Then you have to have a presence on the ground as well, especially as an investor, if you want to makes investments in Africa from a South African base you are most likely going to lose a lot of money.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I know you ve done Southern and Eastern Africa, are there any plans in the future to explore what s happening in West Africa on the motorcycle?GERHARD VISAGIE: Most definitely, I would love to do a trip from Nigeria through Ghana and then to Ivory Coast. That would be my next one, I don t know when it will happen but that would be another interesting one. Although, what I have learnt from various other travelers that you meet along the way, is that East Africa is a lot more tourist-friendly. In East Africa wherever you go, you can ride from Cape Town to Ethiopia and back without having to sleep in a tent once, there are decent hotels and backpackers, you can get that all the way and because the East African countries have such strong tourism sectors, they are fine-tuned to the desires and the needs of tourists and business people, whereas in West Africa what I learnt is that you don t have the same kind of tourist industry. Some of the people, who I met along the way, came down through West Africa and said there you have to say at the local police station in your tent, whereas in East Africa you will find a hotel or a backpackers or a guesthouse to stay in. So the problem is getting from here to Nigeria, there s a stretch through Angola that I m not too interested to see.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In terms of Acorns private equity, what s next for the future in terms of your team?GERHARD VISAGIE: So Acorn Agri is an unlisted company and we have five investments at the moment, we are working on a sixth that should be implemented in the next couple of weeks. Our net asset value is R1.5 billion, then it would be. Our aim has always been to grow Acorn organically and through acquisitions to a R2 billion to R3 billion net asset value and then take it to a listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange or perhaps aim at London. We re also increasingly looking for opportunities outside South Africa in the agri and food sector, Namibia, Botswana, Zambia.We used to look at Mozambique but we ve placed that on ice because of the situation there at the moment. So Acorn Agri is a definite focus and then also Acorn Africa Fund, where we are expanding our capabilities to include East Africa and I m actually going back to Nairobi next week to investigate opportunities there. Our aim is to raise $200 million for that fund, that s a classic private equity fund that is focused on institutional money, pension fund money, DFI money, and so forth, whereas Acorn Agri has more of a focus on high net worth individuals and families, and also wealth offices.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Gerhard, thank you so much for your time.GERHARD VISAGIE: Thank you so much, Nastassia, thank you for the opportunity.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That was Gerhard Visagie, he s the investment director at Acorn Private Equity.