The value of the two gas-to-power projects to be procured by the Department of Energy at Coega in the Eastern Cape and Richards Bay in KwaZulu-Natal could total R25 billion each, Karén Breytenbach, head of the department’s independent power project (IPP) unit told journalists during the Gas Options conference in Cape Town on Tuesday. The department on Monday night released its Preliminary Information Memorandum (PIM) that will inform the formal procurement, set to kick off with a request for qualifications (RFQ) in November and followed by a final request for proposals (RFP) in August next year. The procurement of the two projects will run in parallel. On the basis of the RFQ, the department hopes to compile a shortlist of four or five bidders for each project, with whom they will engage and who will have the right to submit firm bids in response to the RFP. Breytenbach said the biggest cost wouldn’t be the infrastructure, but rather the liquefied natural gas (LNG) to be procured during the 20-year duration of the contracts. She said the infrastructure would be rand-based but the LNG, dollar-based. The department is working with National Treasury to convert the LNG cost to rands and develop hedging strategies to mitigate the currency risk. She said there are different models to calculate the LNG cost, including linkage to the oil price. The department wouldn’t be prescriptive regarding the indexing of the LNG tariff, but would leave it to bidders to propose the model they prefer. Government hopes to leverage the gas-to-power project to develop a gas market in South Africa. This would be done by allowing third parties access to the gas supply not earmarked for the generation of electricity. The rules governing such access would be agreed upon upfront. Deputy director general of the department Ompi Aphane said many studies have been done to determine the demand for gas at a national and regional level. Markets identified include industrial and residential customers in Gauteng, Mpumalanga and other parts of KwaZulu-Natal. He said while South Africans currently use electricity “for everything”, cooking and space heating for example could be done more efficiently with gas. He further envisages some industrial clients switching from electricity to gas as source of energy. Asked how that would affect Eskom and whether Eskom is agreeable to sign the 20-year power purchase agreement (PPA) that underpins the project, Aphane said the concept of the PPA is government policy and he doesn’t foresee any problems. Despite Eskom’s recent criticism of renewable PPAs, Aphane said there is no policy or regulatory uncertainty. When the minister of energy makes a determination that a certain amount of generation capacity of a certain technology should be developed, as she has done with gas-to-power, it creates an obligation to proceed with the PPA. Eskom’s issue with the PPAs is that the utility foresees some over-capacity, but that is only for the period until 2021 and these projects will come into operation thereafter, Aphane said. The legislation is clear that the country needs an energy mix and gas is one of the sources government has decided on, he added. Breytenbach said Treasury supports the PPA, but its support only kicks in if Eskom, for whatever reason, is unable to honour the contract. Then Treasury would honour the obligation by paying the IPP, and recovering the money from Eskom once its issues have been sorted out. She said the probability of that happening is, however, very slim, thanks to the clear regulatory framework that allows for the recovery of IPP costs as a pass-through in the methodology for determining electricity tariffs. This, she said, gives Treasury and investors confidence in the process. About the possibility of a move to gas eroding Eskom’s market, Aphane said one of the objectives of the energy policy is to drive down electricity costs. He said certain technologies lend themselves to greater cost efficiency; for example, gas for space and water heating. As gas becomes available as an alternative, the demand for electricity will decline in that space, but that will force efficiency onto all utilities, he said. Supply and demand will reconfigure and eventually reach an equilibrium. Breytenbach said the department realised that the 35% load factor initially envisaged for the new power plants would be too low. The infrastructure cost has to be spread over the volume produced and currently the department believes a load factor of 65% would be enough to ensure the project affordability. Gert de Beer, head of business development at Transnet, said the State-owned company (SOC) would like to partner with the private sector and take some equity in the special purpose vehicles that will be contracted to deliver the projects. He said Transnet’s balance sheet is strong enough to do so. Transnet manages the ports that will play a crucial role in the import of LNG and housing the floating storage regasification unit (FSRU) that is one of the options that will probably form part of the projects. The department earlier said bidders would be required to set aside at least 35% equity for SOCs and broad-based share ownership schemes. It did not name the relevant SOCs. De Beer said Transnet believes the port of Saldanha also has big potential for a similar project, but it will take longer to get it to the same state of readiness as Coega and Richards Bay. He said Transnet will cooperate actively with all partners to ensure the readiness of all three sites.