Energy minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson on Monday announced the Thabametsi and Khanyisa consortia as winners of the bids to become South Africa’s first independent power producers (IPPs) generating electricity from coal. The winning bidders will construct power stations near Witbank in Mpumalanga and Lephalale in Limpopo, respectively and sell to Eskom on the basis of a 30-year power purchase agreement (PPA). The IPPs take the risk of construction cost overruns and delays, as well as coal price volatility. The procurement specifications put a cap of 82c/kWh on the energy to be sold to Eskom and both bidders committed to that. The tariff will be index-adjusted over the period. The projects are expected to create 6 613 job opportunities during construction, and 13 524 during operations. They are expected to come into commercial operation in December 2020. Joemat-Pettersson said both projects would use proven technology from suppliers with a track record of timeous delivery. “With the backing of foreign developers from Korea, Japan and Saudi-Arabia, the SA banking sector, including the Development Bank of South African (DBSA), the PIC (Public Investment Corporation) and IDC (Industrial Development Corporation), the two bidders already have a formidable set of partners committed to enabling their projects’ success,” she said. The projects were designed to enhance economic development through a requirement of 51% minimum participation by South African entities, black ownership of 30% and a weighted Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment contributor status of level five in respect of local shareholders. Joemat-Pettersson repeated government’s commitment to reducing its carbon footprint and its dependence on fossil fuel and said government has made good progress in increasing the share of renewable energy in the country’s energy mix by 2030 to 21%, coming from a zero base in 2010. The share of fossil fuels will over the same period drop from 86.5% to 57%. Obakeng Moloabi, executive director and head of project development at Pele Natural Energy (PNE), which has a 15% stake in the 300MW Khanyisa Project, said the project will utilise coal from Anglo America’s mine about 4km from the planned power station. Anglo initiated the project and in the early stages anticipated to be the off-taker of the electricity. PNE partners on the Khanyisa project with among others the Saudi-Arabian ACWA Power, which also invested in the Department of Energy’s renewable energy programme. He said PNE is negotiating participation at EPC-level, but those negotiations have not been concluded yet. This would be the company’s second asset since it is also a partner in a 40MW gas-fired power station in Mozambique, that will sell its energy to the Mozambican power utility EDM. PNE is further planning to participate in the bidding for South Africa’s first liquefied natural gas power stations to be built at Coega in the Eastern Cape and Richards Bay in KwaZulu-Natal. After Monday’s announcement, Moloabi said that it is exciting to see that government is not rigid with regards to the energy mix and is executing its policy to procure not only renewables, but also base load. He said the announcement is a milestone that will deliver economic development through local expenditure as well as job creation, while ensuring energy security. Engineering News earlier identified Marubeni Middle East and Africa Power of Japan, as one of the developers of the Thabametsi project and reported the project will utilise the coal from Exxaro’s greenfield Thabametsi mine; the other developer is Kepco of Korea. Each hold a 24.5% stake. The PIC and various BEE firms hold the balance of the equity.