JOHANNESBURG – South Africa has little chance of falling into recession next year, according to a Reuters poll released on Thursday, with firmer commodity prices, exports and agriculture expected to cushion the economy. The results suggested the probability of a recession was less than one chance in three, according to the answers to a question added to a wider survey of 33 economists taken over the past week. However, the poll was almost complete when Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was ordered to appear in court on November 2 to hear fraud charges against him. The rand plunged and South African government bond yields surged after the news. The survey concluded that South Africa will grow by a median 1.1% next year compared with 0.3% this year. Both forecasts were unchanged from last month’s median. “We expect a smaller drag from the mining and agricultural sectors on economic growth in the coming year, which should reduce the risk of a recession,” said Elna Moolman, an economist at Macquarie. The South African economy grew just 1.3% last year, and the government is under pressure from ratings agencies to generate more growth to help fund its large budget deficit. A senior official at the National Treasury warned on Wednesday that slow economic growth and depleted revenues will hurt the Treasury’s ability to chip away at the deficit . In February, the government expected to reduce the deficit to 3.2% of gross domestic product in the next fiscal year from 3.9% in the current year. However, Mandla Maleka, an economist at Eskom Treasury, said the economy remains structurally weak but export volumes may recover because of the weaker rand. Interest rates in South Africa are expected to hold at 7.00% for the next two years. The last poll expected rates to end next year at 7.25%. That comes despite expectations inflation will slow to an average of 5.8% in 2017 from 6.4% this year. “Prospects of unchanged interest rates and some moderate fuel price changes for the remainder of the year could support the consumer,” said Thea Fourie, senior economist at IHS Markit. Fourie added that the risk of labour strikes had subsided and South Africa should see some improved agricultural production in the 2016/2017 farming season. Dam levels have fallen to 53% as an El Nino weather pattern triggered droughts across southern Africa and placed millions at risk of food shortages. That weather pattern ended in May.