Whether the fraud charges against finance minister Pravin Gordhan are flimsy or not, is irrelevant. The intention is not to see him in court, but to get him out of office in the weeks ahead. This is the view of John Steenhuisen, chief whip of the DA, who provided a short overview on South African politics to attendees at the annual Morningstar Investment Conference in Cape Town. It was an appropriate time for an address. As communist revolutionary Vladimir Lenin once said: “There are decades where nothing happens; and there are weeks where decades happen.” This seems particularly appropriate to South Africa right now. “Head of the National Prosecuting Authority, Shaun Abrahams, insists that there is no State interference in the decisions made by the NPA,” says Steenhuisen. “This is the same national director who just last week was trying to persuade the Constitutional Court why he should not proceed with the prosecution of Jacob Zuma on 783 counts of fraud. Yet this week he is pushing a prosecution of a man on a R1 million charge. “It makes a lie of ‘no interference’, particularly coming from a man who is fondly known in our circles as ‘Shaun-the-sheep’.” The timing of the NPA announcement is notable. In two weeks the finance minister is meant to present the Medium Term Budget Policy Statement (MTBPS). “This is not the first time they have tried to throw him off. A week before the February budget, the Hawks announced its investigation into Gordhan. A day before the budget (President) Jacob Zuma says that Pravin Gordhan is not his first choice of finance minister,” he says. “Of course as president of the country, Zuma could have prevented events from unfolding as they did, but he allowed it to happen.” For investors this means that South Africa has scored another own-goal when it comes to its battles to stave off a ratings downgrade. “This is hardly the sort of stuff that instills confidence,” adds Steenhuisen. The question on everyone’s lips is how long Gordhan will survive. “We are expecting a Cabinet reshuffle. There are ministers who have told me their bags are packed,” he says. “Zuma will use this opportunity to fortify his defences. He will bring his supporters closer to him and will create a ring of steel – particularly using the security cluster – around him. He may even use the opportunity to make the Cabinet smaller, arguing ‘well you asked for it’.” These days gauging the ANC’s reaction to events is far less predictable than in the past. “There is a new level of introspection within the ANC.” Evidence of this came from ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu who on Tuesday acknowledged that the ANC’s arrogance has cost it legitimacy and support. This is forcing government to consider the impact of pushing ahead with unpopular decisions. While it’s late in the day, the introspection is welcomed. There is a new robustness in SA politics. SA has a number of young leaders in the National Assembly – the likes of Mmusi Maimane and Julius Malema are breathing life and vigour into Parliament. “Parliament is no longer a comfortable place for government ministers to come and nod off. Ministers are feeling the heat. This is forcing them to be better prepared and better able to answer questions. Though we would like to see more ministers in government [not out of government] grow a spine.” With the local government elections behind us, the focus is now firmly on the 2019 national elections. With three metropoles under its control, the DA hopes to use this opportunity well. “We have huge budgets and huge access to resources and we will use this to introduce meaningful change,” says Steenhuisen. For the first time the next election is not a foregone conclusion. If the ANC continues to shed support then 2019 is up for grabs. That is a source of inspiration for the opposition and should energise government to get its act together. “That is positive for SA. Democratic competition means voters win and economies do better.” The ANC of course has to ensure it does not become too distracted by internal politics. Everyone wants to know who will replace Zuma. “I don’t believe it will be Cyril [Ramaphosa]. He has had two opportunities to make his move – Nenegate and the Constitutional Court judgement – but he bottled it. Will the premier league get the top spot? If they do, they will take South Africa in a very different direction,” says Steenhuisen. “If I was a betting man I’d go short on Cyril and long on Zweli Mkize. He is very close to the president, but is also close to business as a result of his role as treasurer general.” While most South Africans are feeling somewhat shell-shocked by recent events, Steenhuisen remains positive. “I have a passion for the future of SA. It is easy to get lost in the gloom and doom. There is a lot wrong. But the great part is that we will fix what is wrong with SA, with what is right. “That is not the minerals below the ground – it’s the people above the ground. We are resilient. Let’s work together to find a solution. As Robert Kennedy said to students of UCT in 1966, ‘each one of us must become a ripple of hope’.”